The Chronicle Editor — My twin boys Siyaphi and Velaphi Mutisi have been at Maranatha Junior school from Grade 1 and are now doing Grade 7. I have been supportive of the school and will continue to do so until kingdom come. During the 2nd term a decision was made to separate school fees and transport fees. As parents we were requested to pay our transport fees in US dollar which I paid in full. Today my twin boys called me when I was 800km away to advise me that tomorrow they will not be allowed to catch the school bus because they are required to pay an extra RTGS$1 000, for what! Please can you advise me why me as a parent is required to pay any extra cash yet I paid the transport fees in cash and in US dollars. Maranatha Junior School executive please can you stop taking us parents as fools because parents do not raise and oppose issues and neither do we question your decisions. If you had advised us that transport fees were US$200 we were going to pay you without questioning your decision. What I don’t agree with is to request for extra cash due to your maladministration. Can you please stop this kind of behaviour we should not punish parents for the failure of the school to administer the fees that are paid by the parents in US$, yes in US$. If that is not the case please can you advise us on what you did with the US dollars that the school received as payment for the school bus transport fares. I am kindly requesting the school authority to put this extra charge in writing so that I can easily sue them to stop the school from constant abuse of helpless parents. Please include the fact that you received your transport fees in full. Just to advise you Siyaphi and Velaphi Mutisi will be catching the school bus tomorrow (and daily) on the basis that I have paid the fees in full and in USD as requested by the school before the start of the second term. If you want me to elaborate further please do not hesitate to contact me on 0772278161. Engineer Jacob Kudzayi Mutis