The Chronicle Hazel Marimbiza “Tears fill our eyes when we think about being raped by our fathers. Day by day we tread alone in a life full of darkness. No companion to help bear the load of pain but troubles are our daily bread,” said Sobukhazi High School A- Level pupil Tracy Chiro in a speech during Universal Children’s Day commemorations in Bulawayo recently. The event, which was meant to create awareness on children’s rights was hosted by The Civil Society Strengthening Project, Sweden and European Union Partners with Plan International, Justice for Children Trust (JCT), Plan Denmark and Women and Law in Southern Africa. Children called for more action to prevent and end child sexual abuse. A common misconception about child sexual abuse (CSA) is that it is rare and perpetrated by strangers on children in poor areas. But in actual fact, CSA is a common occurrence that results in harm to millions of children, boys and girls alike, in large and small communities, and across a range of cultures and socio-economic backgrounds. According to statistics, more than 100 girls are sexually abused every day – but these statistics are just a tip of the iceberg. Other cases are not reported due to involvement of some care givers, who prefer to have an out of court settlement with child sexual abusers. Statistics available are also not reflective of all cases considering some occur in rural areas and go unreported. Acts of CSA are perpetrated by many types of offenders, including men and women, strangers, trusted friends or family, and people of all sexual orientations, socio-economic classes, and cultural backgrounds. However, cases of CSA often go unreported and swept under the carpet. In addition to being developmentally vulnerable, children are often manipulated to feel guilty or responsible for the abuse. These children may fear disclosure they might not be believed, or that it will negatively affect their own well-being and that of their families. “It is a fact that some cases of child sexual abuse are perpetrated by relatives, known people and even parents of the victims. Child abuse is often hidden within the home and we need to take all possible steps to detect such abuse and protect the abused children. What is clear is that some cases are not reported to the police. Other cases are swept under the carpet by parents in order to safeguard family relations,” said Mrs Sithobekile Sithole, a JCT legal representative. “Children themselves must continue to be educated on their rights and be encouraged to come forward to report abuses to authorities because sexual abuse of children is a terrible social evil. It blights the lives of the children, as well as their families, and debases our society,” added Mrs Sithole. At a time when the world is commemorating 16 Days of Activism Against Gender Based Violence under the theme, “Orange the World: Generation Equality Stands Against Rape”, questions have been raised on how cases of sexual abuse can be dealt with in order to protect victims who report, yet no comprehensive answers were given. “What’s next? I have been raped, they have made a sex toy out of me, so what’s next?” inquired Sandile Moyo, a pupil from Amhlophe High School. She didn’t wait for a response and continued: “Every child has a right to live this life without fear. Every child wants her body to be respected. Our rights are infringed on by gender-based violence at home. We expect our parents to be our heroes, protectors and providers. We want to be safe in the hands of our parents. Our parents should be examples of good behaviour. They should not teach us how to live but show us how to live.” Oasis Zimbabwe chief executive Ms Asha Emmerson said statistics from Edith Opperman Clinic in Mbare, Harare, indicated that for every girl who is sexually abused, 10 more cases went unreported. “It’s terror. What is very clear is that the ubuntu concept has been lowered to the litterbin in our society. The underlying problem is a lack of moral principles and ethically sound mindsets. It is difficult to understand how a qualified teacher ends up abusing a pupil. It is difficult to understand how a father ends up sexually abusing his daughter. There is a clear reflection of the inadequacies of humanity today. How does one justify bedding a minor? How does one justify raping a child? What has happened to the ethical fibre that defines humankind? The problem is we do not even know how to report those closest to us without straining family relations,” said Mr Brandon Mauku, a speech paralegal. Child sexual abuse takes place anywhere in the country but many NGOs in child protection programming are concentrated in easy to reach areas, leaving those children in difficult to reach areas more vulnerable. “It is difficult for us to handle all cases of CSA as some are out of our reach. Generally, CSA cases are complex and there are no funds to cater for victims of CSA who are in need of safe shelters,” said Mrs Sithole. “Ideally, victims of CSA should be removed from homes if the perpetrator is the breadwinner and stay in shelters but in most instances organisations lack resources to cater for victims. At the end of the day, children will prefer to refrain from reporting such cases,” she added. Perhaps what is also heart-rending is that cases of CSA have long lasting effects on children’s ability to be change makers and bring development in their communities. Due to CSA issues, children are hindered from having a bright future. Children tend to look down upon themselves after suffering sexual abuse. “We may be young but we have potential to do better in our lives and become exemplary citizens. We want to lead and bring development to societies but we can’t do that if we can’t even close our eyes and imagine a safe world,” said Junior Member of Parliament Chief Justice, Ms Palma Mhande. With sexual abuse destroying children’s lives, what is clear is that a concerted effort is required to decisively deal with the issue. The greatest task that confronts professionals, law enforcement agents, traditional leaders and the rest of the community is to put their heads together and strategise on how the child sexual abuse scourge can be ended. “Every child has a right to be represented whenever they have been sexually abused but our country has no free lawyers so it has become our responsibility to represent these children. Our mandate is also to empower children on the laws of the country,” said Mrs Phayi Moyo, a JCT legal educational officer. “We have child law forum clubs in which children from different schools participate in dramas, music, speeches, debates and poems meant to educate them on their sexual rights,” she added. While these efforts are applaudable, the fact still remains that there are inadequate policies and resources to fight CSA. As such, there is need to deliberate on effective policies which will help combat the scourge.