The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter The trial of Lukosi Secondary school deputy headmistress in Hwange who allegedly forced a Form One girl to undress in the presence of other teachers failed to start yesterday as there was no magistrate to hear the case. Possenta Kwidini (50) allegedly forced the schoolgirl who cannot be named for ethical reasons to undress in September as punishment for walking around with her skirt unzipped. Kwidini was supposed to appear at the Hwange magistrate’s court yesterday to answer to a charge of criminal insult but the case was postponed to November 25 when a magistrate will be available to hear the case. The only magistrate who was available yesterday will be going on maternity leave starting on Monday hence she could not hear the case and leave it as a partly heard matter, court officials said. There are also plans to amend the charges against the deputy headmistress to include sections of the Education and Child Protection Act. Kwidini turned up with some witnesses while the girl was accompanied by her family, community members, some gender based violence activists and other pupils who are witnesses in the case. According to State papers, Kwidini forced the girl to undress in the presence of two other female teachers Ms Chipo Mahlangu and Ms Mazvita Muteme. “On a date not known to the prosecutor but in September at around midday, the accused was sitting in the Textiles Technology and Design room in the company of two other female teachers when she saw the complainant tucking her school uniform shirt behind the classroom and called her. The accused asked the girl why she was moving around with her skirt zip open and the girl told her that she was tucking in her shirt,” read the State papers. It is alleged that Kwidini told the girl that it was improper for a female person to dress in public. She allegedly ordered the girl in Nambya to unzip her skirt saying “zhula chiketi chucho” (unzip that skirt). The girl complied and the accused allegedly ordered her to let the skirt drop “chilegeje”, Nambya for (leave that skirt) while threatening to assault her. Out of fear the girl complied and she was left wearing her shirt and panty only. Kwindini allegedly later ordered her to dress and go to her classroom where she was consoled by her classmates who witnessed the incident from afar. The girl was crying when she arrived at her classroom, according to the State papers. A report was made to the police leading to Kwidini’s arrest. —@ncubeleon