The Chronicle A CARNIVAL atmosphere is expected at Barbourfields Stadium this afternoon when Highlanders FC take on Ngezi Platinum Stars in the final of the Chibuku Super Cup. In a fitting finale to the Bulawayo giants’ resurgence, Bosso might cap a fine second half of the Castle lager Premier Soccer League season with a trophy in front of their multitudes of supporters who are set to throng Emagumeni and turn it into a sea of black and white. The club yesterday confirmed that there would be road shows by supporters from South Africa, Botswana, Harare and areas within the vicinity of Bulawayo with Barbourfields Stadium expected to be full to the rafters. In a post on their official Twitter handle yesterday, Highlanders FC said: “Our club chapters & fan groups from all over the country, South Africa and Botswana have confirmed road shows from their respective bases for tomorrow’s final. We are anticipating a full house! Gates open @ 11am, be there early to avoid inconveniences.” In response to the tweet, the Senior Sports Editor of our sister paper, The Herald, Robson Sharuko, wrote: “And hope the rains don’t spoil the parade, this feels more like the rebirth of a club and a city and just had to be there to witness it, I say it again and again, there’s nothing like a healthy and happy Bosso in Zim football”. Indeed, the rebirth of Highlanders has been nothing short of remarkable and all credit should go to the executive, board, head coach Hendrik Pieter de Jongh and his support staff and the supporters who have been cheering the boys on. Highlanders and Dynamos are the oldest and most followed teams in Zimbabwe and their survival is crucial to the future of football in the country. Of late, the two teams have been on a downward spiral largely because of lack of sound sponsorship resulting in teams bankrolled by companies with financial clout overtaking the two giants. However, mobile telecommunications company NetOne has come to the rescue of both clubs by injecting much needed funds to cover salaries for players and coaches — lessening the burden. Football clubs have not been spared the economic challenges affecting the country and salaries and allowances for players and support staff, which were negotiated at the beginning of the season — have been eroded by inflation. There have been instances whereby supporters’ groups and other well-wishers have chipped in at Highlanders to motivate the players through cash donations and this is welcome. Observers might have also noticed that some supporters dole out cash to players they feel would have performed well on any particular day. This shows that they understand that players have families to feed and are not out there to entertain them and go home to misery and penury. Bosso coach de Jongh also understands that the performance of the team not only hinges on training and tactics but may be affected by external factors. This is why he has gone out of his way to have an intimate relationship with his players from finding out what makes them tick to their home environment and families. We appreciate his intervention and are under no illusions as to the massive impact he has made since his arrival. Results speak for themselves — he is unbeaten in 15 matches and his team sits comfortably on position five on the log with two games remaining. They could even gatecrash their way into the top four. The amazing transformation has seen Highlanders play breathtaking football with players fighting for each other and their team. Their performances have left their supporters and neutrals alike purring at the prospect of a return to the glory days when Bosso pulverised opponents for fun. Attendances have also improved with Barbourfields now a fortress it once was. Today’s final therefore offers Highlanders an opportunity to put the cherry on top of their flawless second half of the season. Granted, Ngezi Platinum Stars are a solid and dangerous team but the drive and momentum currently coursing through every Highlanders player and the belief and confidence they exude following their resurgence could count in their favour. Massive home support is also another positive factor laying the stage for a party atmosphere. Football is a family sport and in these challenging times, offers an outlet for people to kick back and unwind. Corporates such as Delta Beverages should be applauded for bankrolling tournaments such as the Chibuku Super Cup as they offer an incentive to clubs to perform while fighting for the prizemoney which is essential for motivating players and covering other administrative expenses. In an era of austerity, it is refreshing to note that we still have companies that take their corporate social responsibility duties seriously. In the same vein, we also salute the 12th man — the supporters — who have been with their clubs through thick and thin despite low disposable incomes. At Barbourfields this afternoon, we urge them to be orderly and desist from violence. Their behaviour could carry their team across the line or spoil the party.