The Chronicle Wallace Ruzvidzo, Harare Bureau The Zanu-PF Politburo yesterday announced the theme for the forthcoming 18th Zanu-PF Annual People’s Conference set to be held at Goromonzi High School in Mashonaland East Province. The annual conference will be held under the theme “Modernise, Mechanise and Grow the Economy Towards Vision 2030”. The decision was made by members of the Politburo at its 333rd ordinary session held at the party headquarters. Addressing journalists at a press briefing after the Politburo session, Secretary for Information and Publicity Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said topical issues to be discussed at the conference will border on the state of the economy, mining as a crucial industry in reviving the economy and food security. Cde Khaya Moyo said all provinces were working out the finer details to ensure the conference was a resounding success. “The conference will be held under the theme “Modernise, Mechanise and Grow the Economy towards vision 2030”,” he said. “In today’s meeting, preparations for this important annual event were presented and the finer details are still being worked out with all provinces. “The main thrust of discussions at the conference will relate to issues which border on the state of the economy, mining as a pivotal industry in revamping the economy and food security as it relates to the modernisation and mechanisation of agriculture.” Cde Khaya Moyo said President Mnangagwa called upon sub-committees to make sure that the conference was a success and reminded Politburo members that the hallmark of the New Dispensation was servant leadership. “His Excellency Cde ED Mnangagwa welcomed members to the 333rd ordinary session of the Politburo and in his remarks, reminded Politburo members that the culture of the Second Republic is servant leadership and there was no room for armchair leaders. “The President urged various subcommittees to ensure that the forthcoming 18th people’s conference to be held at Goromonzi High School, Mash East province, in December is a success.” More than 7 000 delegates are expected to attend the annual conference with at least 2 000 foreign delegates having confirmed their participation. The conference is expected to consolidate national efforts towards reviving the country’s economy, with President Mnangagwa aggressively pursuing economic recovery through the implementation of the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (2018–2020). The TSP is premised on fiscal consolidation, economic stabilisation, and stimulation of growth and creation of employment. At the 2018 annual conference, the party came up with a number of resolutions which included the endorsement of President Mnangagwa as the party’s sole Presidential candidate in the 2023 elections