The Chronicle Brenda Zinyuke, Court Reporter A BULAWAYO man has appeared in court for allegedly defrauding African Distillers Limited of $10 000 after altering an order that was written on his receipt. William Jongo (34) of Pelandaba suburb allegedly duped the company in Belmont area represented by Mr Dennis Moyo (34). Jongo was allegedly also found in possession of a fake receipt addressed to the same company. He was not asked to plead to charges of fraud and being found in possession of articles of criminal use when he appeared before Bulawayo magistrate Ms Nomasiko Ndlovu. The magistrate remanded him out of custody on $300 bail to today. Prosecuting, Mr Mufaro Mageza said on Thursday last week at around midday, Jongo allegedly went to African Distillers where he bought 10 x 200 millilitres of Gold Blend whisky pet at $13.91 each. Jongo allegedly paid $159.97 for the purchase of the whisky and was given a receipt with the number 4236078 but went away without collecting the paid for goods. “At around 4PM, the accused person came back with a sky-blue Honda Fit taxi, registration number AEU 5505 with the receipt number 4236078 but it now had an order for 720 x 200 millilitres of Gold Blend whisky. He told a security guard who was on duty that he had come to collect his goods which he had bought before and was given the goods but the security guard retained the invoice,” said the prosecutor. On the same day, the company checked its stock against the receipts and discovered that the duplicate receipt and the one used to collect the purchased goods had different quantities. Mr Moyo reported the matter at Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) Donnington and investigations were carried out. Investigations revealed that Jongo’s Ecocash had been used to purchase the goods. Police further used the car’s registration number to track the driver who had come with Jongo to collect the goods and located him. At that time, Jongo allegedly called the driver intending to hire him again. The driver led the police to Jongo’s said location. Jongo was searched and found with another fake receipt which was addressed to African Distillers Limited with an order for 96 x 200 millilitres of Gold Blend whisky. The receipt had a total value of $10 192. This led to his arrest. All the stolen whisky was recovered.—@zinyuke98