The Chronicle Wedding of twins, Muzimkhulu and Muziwandile Dube (third born) sons of Mr Autinet and Mrs Preciate Dube of Vungu in Lower Gweru. Muzimkhulu married Nomazulu Ngwenya, first born daughter of Mr Thulani and Mrs Nokuthula Ngwenya (Malisa) while Muziwandile married Providence Ndlovu, first born of Miss Nobuhle Ndlovu from Gwatemba, Filabusi. Married on . . . 25 August, 2019 at Makokoba SDA church. Wedding Reception was at . . . Amazing Grace Garden’s in Matsheumhlophe, Bulawayo. We chose this venue because it offered an idyllic outdoor space and had a vibrant landscape of towering trees, flora and beautifully manicured lawns. How did Muzimkhulu propose: We had been dating for a while and last year, he visited my house and faced the bemused curiosity of my siblings and my mother’s lines of questioning with wit and charm while breezily keeping my siblings entertained. He then took me to town and told me he was ready to settle down. We told our aunts and uncles and wedding preparations began. How did Muziwandile propose . . . After some years as girlfriend and boyfriend, our love blossomed. In April last year on a Saturday afternoon after church (Cowdray Park SDA), we took a walk and he expressed how he was ready to settle to down. In December, we then informed our relatives and began making preparations for our wedding. Challenges Muzimkhulu and Nomazulu faced in planning the wedding . . . Mobilising resources was a challenge. Since this was a double wedding, we needed to take into consideration, the number of guests that we were going to invite. When we drafted our budget, we realised we did not have enough money for all the guests we wanted to invite. We then had to cut down our guest list to 700 from 1 000. However, with prayer and support from family, colleagues and friends, we overcame challenges we faced. Muziwandile and Providence challenges . . . We had wanted to invite a considerable number of guests. However, the challenge was gathering resources to cater for all the people who we wanted to invite. It was hectic raising funds for the wedding considering our economic situation. Fortunately, God intervened. Wedding dresses. . . Nomazulu’s and Providence’s wedding dresses were the same, a bowl white gown. Wedding colours – burgundy and dusty. Bridal team . . . For Muzimkhulu and Nomazulu, it was a 10-member bridal team with Mbongeni Mabuza Ncube as best man and Nozithelo Ngwenya as best lady.  Muziwandile and Providence also had a 10-member bridal team comprising of Fortune Mlotshwa as best man and Thembi Tshuma as best lady. Cake: The two couples both had a three-tier fruit cake. Favourite part of the wedding . . .  For Muzimkhulu and Nomazulu was: “When we entered the reception, dancing all the way to the high table to our song Angihambi Ngedwa Mina, Ngihamba Lomuntu Wami.” Muziwandile and Providence’s favourite part of the wedding was . . . Departure time from home (Cowdray Park). It was emotional and at the same time exciting. The ceremony at Makokoba SDA church was amazing, our officiating pastor of the day, Pastor Fairchild Mhlophe gave good spiritual advice to us and the party time was very interesting at Amazing Grace Gardens. Most touching speech . . . for Muzimkhulu and Nomazulu was from the twins’ aunt, Mrs J V Moyo who narrated on how she took care of my fiancé as he was growing up. For Muziwandile and Providence, their most touching speech was from Providence’s mother as she bade farewell. Guest list . . . 700. However, it did not work as more than 1 200 people attended the wedding. Photography . . . Proctor Photography. MC . . . Nceku and Mthembo. Entertainment . . . DJ Humphrey, bridal team and Ezimnyama dance group. Budget . . . R80 000. Honeymoon . . . Johannesburg, South Africa. – If you want your wedding to be featured on our Wedding of the Week column, please feel free to get in touch with the Showbiz Desk on 09-888871-9, 0774 007 233 or send an email to bnndlovu1984@gmail.com.