The Chronicle Wedding of Mthokozisi Dube, the first born child of Timothy and Robina Dube of Kezi and Zinhle Tshabalala, the first born child of Philip and Louise Beverly Tshabalala of Harrismith, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Tied the knot on . . . October 26, 2019.
We chose . . . Lakeside Events Centre in Bulawayo for our wedding ceremony and reception because of its attractive natural gardens – every photographer’s paradise. How did you meet your husband?
We met through a mutual friend in 2017. I first saw him at church in Durban where he had been invited by a mutual friend. He drove all the way from Johannesburg to attend the evening service in Durban. After the church service, we went for dinner with two friends. Two weeks later, he “created” a trip to Durban “just to come to church”. We went on a date with the same friends and exchanged numbers. He started calling occasionally and for several months, we communicated over the phone. He would visit Durban twice a month and I developed a strong liking for him as we continued communicating. In October 2018, he proposed, but I wouldn’t accept an engagement ring without the involvement of my parents. So he then wrote a letter to my dad asking to come and pay lobola. He agreed and he came on the 27th of October, 2018. We had a traditional Zulu ceremony called Umembeso in Harrismith on the 1st of December, 2018. Umembeso involves the groom, together with his family coming to the bride’s family with gifts. Exactly a year after he paid lobola, on the 26th of October, 2019 we had our white wedding in Bulawayo. How did he propose . . . It was during a “Road Trip Themed Proposal”. He got wind of a planned trip from Durban to Harrismith and he was in Johannesburg. He called and told me he was driving to Durban from Johannesburg and his return trip to Johannesburg was the day I was going to Harrismith. I fell into the trap and agreed to drive with him. While driving, he started playing the song “Give Me You” by Mary J Blige and told me it was dedicated to me. He stopped at a place where there was a trampoline. He opened the door for me and asked if I would like to jump on the trampoline. I agreed. In the middle of the jumping, he knelt on the trampoline with the ring and asked “will you be Mrs Dube?” Leading up to the wedding . . . It was gruelling, but I’m grateful that my four right-hand persons – my matron of honour Janelle Tshabalala, my sister-in-love Sibhekinkosi Dube, my little sister Thembisile Tshabalala and a dear friend Sisanda Mpetshwa were always there for me and ensured everything went smoothly. My fiancé was equally supportive.
Did you face any challenges preparing for the wedding? The greatest challenge was planning a Bulawayo wedding from Johannesburg. I had to depend on my in-laws as I didn’t know any service providers in Bulawayo. In fact, I had never been to Zimbabwe. It was quite difficult, but I had to trust my in-laws. Wedding colours . . . We chose nude and white as our wedding colours as we wanted something unique and elegant.
My wedding dress . . . God was kind to us as I won a wedding gown from Veil Bridal Couture through the BET Africa show Two Families And a Wedding Dress. It was very classy and elegant and accentuated my stunning body. The bridal team . . . Was an eight-member one with Nyasha Chingono as best man and Sisanda Mpetshwa as best lady. The cake . . . Was a round three-tier semi-naked cake which had carrot, red velvet and vanilla flavours with fresh non edible flowers. It was baked by Cake Fairy. My favourite part of the wedding . . . Was when our rings were “flown” to us using a DJI Phantom 3 Drone Camera provided by Plasma Multimedia. It was such a stunning site with everyone following the drone as it slowly drew closer to us. The most touching speech . . . Was by Sisanda Mpetshwa as she told a story of our time in Durban and the beautiful memories we created together. What was on the menu . . . The main meal comprised of rice, isitshwala, creamed samp, potato wedges, stewed beef, chicken stew, butternut, beetroot, mixed vegetables, coleslaw salad, green salad, carrot pudding and juice. Guest list . . . 150. Photography was provided by . . . Plasma Multimedia.
MC: Sithandazile Dube. Entertainment was provided by . . . Thami Khumalo & Wenyasha. Budget . . . US$6 500. Honeymoon . . . Was in Victoria Falls. – l If you want your wedding to be featured on our Wedding of the Week column, please feel free to get in touch with the Showbiz Desk on 09-888871-9, 0774 007 233 or send an email to bnndlovu1984@gmail.com.