The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter THE Public Service Commission in partnership with the Office of the President and Cabinet is inviting candidates to fill the posts of 10 provincial development co-ordinators to formulate and implement economic growth in Zimbabwe. Each of the 10 will be deployed to head one province in line with national development objectives and the realisation of Vision 2030. Application letters, including detailed curriculum vitaes (CVs) and certificates should reach the PSC by November 21 this year. Online applications should be emailed to recruitment@psc.gov.zw <mailto:recrruitment@psc.gov.zw>. In a statement yesterday, the PSC said 10 additional directors of Local Governance were needed to monitor and evaluate service delivery and operations of Local Authorities in all the provinces. According to the statement, candidates especially women with relevant long term experience at senior levels in the private sector or in non-state enterprises domain within and outside Zimbabwe should apply. “The Public Service Commission in partnership with the Office of the President and Cabinet is inviting applications to fill 10 provincial posts of development co-ordinators. Section 264 of the Constitution of Zimbabwe provides for the devolution of a number of functions from central to sub-national levels of Government in pursuit of deepening participatory democracy, supporting inclusive governance and promoting sustainable economic growth and development,” read the statement. “Metropolitan provinces in Zimbabwe have undergone major structural and spatial transformations which while generating growth have also been characterised by severe forms of adverse developments including urban decay, traffic congestion, invasion of high quality agricultural and ecologically sensitive land. These challenges have placed severe strains on the carrying capacity of metropolitan ecosystems to sustain and generally contribute to the realisation of shared development in the context of sustainable cities’ agenda.” According to the PSC the role of the development coordinator will also be to facilitate provincial economic analysis and generate opportunities to improve livelihoods for citizens. “On the other hand, the 10 directors of local Governance will co-ordinate State functions, promote and co-ordinate the involvement of traditional leaders in rural and cultural; development and programmes. They will also monitor capacity building programmes for local authorities to enhance service delivery,” read the statement. — @thamamoe