The Chronicle Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau ZANU-PF is fulfilling most of its election promises among them empowering women and youths to ensure greater self-sustenance and community development. This was said by Beitbridge Senator Cde Tambudzani Mohadi during a training of trainers programme at Longobwe in Ward 1 which is being rolled out by the party’s Women’s League. The Women’s League is training women in the district on life skills, small to medium enterprises management, livestock production, candle, soap and shoe polish making as well as baking. Senator Mohadi said it was important for politicians to go back to the people once elected and engage them on development initiatives.
“As politicians we must learn to go back to the electorate after elections. Our relationship is eternal. Currently as the Women’s League we are rolling out a programme that seeks to empower women and the youth,” she said.
She said women bear the larger portion of the social burden and hence the need to capacitate them with knowledge and the right tools to be able to work for themselves. “We are, however, not leaving out men since we also want to address issues of gender equality. These are some of the promises enshrined in the Zanu-PF manifesto meant to to uplift people’s lives especially in the rural areas,” said Senator Mohadi. She said women are also being trained on cost effective ways to run their own businesses in a rural set up. The senator said most people had challenges in accessing basic commodities hence the Women’s League was changing people’s mind-sets to make the best out of their situations. She encouraged women to form small consortiums and approach banks to access loans for their businesses. “The training is across the districts so that we don’t leave out anyone. The whole idea is to change the mind-set, empower and capacitate them. They should also take advantage of the Women’s Bank which is dedicated to turn their lives around through the provision of loans,” she said. Senator Mohadi said it is also important for women to actively participate in the economic affairs of their communities. “The Zanu-PF Government is doing its part in churning out empowerment projects. Let’s have more women and children going to school to boost the country’s human capital and the quest to create equal job opportunities for men and women,” she said.