The Chronicle The Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (Zesa) is experiencing increased cases of vandalism of its infrastructure across the country and it seems the 10-year mandatory sentence for those convicted of vandalism is not deterrent enough. In September Zesa’s spokesperson Mr Fullard Gwasira said the power utility required at least US$40 million to replace 4 000 transformers vandalised across the country. He said by then Zesa had lost 1 000km of power lines to cable thieves. Two Bulawayo siblings, Sithembinkosi Muti (44) and Thembekile Masiza Conjwayo (34) were arrested recently after they were allegedly found in possession of 1,6 tonnes of Zesa copper cables valued  at more than $400 000. The bulk of the stolen copper is being smuggled into neighbouring South Africa where there is a ready market. The copper cable thieves are so daring that they even cut live wires hence many of them have been electrocuted. What is however surprising is that the deaths of these daring thieves seem not to be deterrent enough. Mr Gwasira said while the power utility’s generation capacity has been constrained by ageing equipment at its thermal power stations and the low water levels at Kariba Dam due to the drought, the situation was worsened by the destruction of equipment by vandals. The increased cases of vandalism of Zesa infrastructure has prompted members of the public to lobby for the mandatory sentence to be increased from 10 to 20 years. Cabinet recently expressed concern at the increasing cases of vandalism of Zesa infrastructure which it said is disrupting power supplies thereby impacting negatively on productivity. The people vandalising Zesa infrastructure and those buying the stolen cables or transformer oil live within our communities. It is therefore incumbent upon each and every citizen to join the fight against vandalism by reporting the culprits to the police. Many electricity consumers are going for long periods without power as a result of vandalism which can be reduced if citizens are vigilant and play their part in protecting Zesa infrastructure. It is however pleasing to note that in many Bulawayo suburbs residents have formed reaction groups that are assisting the police to arrest vandals. This is as it should be. We should rid our communities of these economic saboteurs who are not only causing inconveniences to residents but are negatively affecting productivity.