The Chronicle Michell Zvanyanya, Chronicle Reporter THE Environmental Management Agency (Ema) has, within two weeks of its anti-littering campaign, issued more than 170 tickets to offenders found either littering or using banned kaylites. Ema, on October 24, embarked on a national anti-littering campaign to promote cleanliness in the country during the rainy season. In an interview yesterday, Ema national spokesperson, Ms Amkela Sidange said the campaign seeks to combat risks of outbreak of diseases during the rainy season associated with waste mismanagement. She said two weeks into the campaign, the agency has managed to carry out inspections in areas such as Harare, Beitbridge, Chinhoyi and Kadoma with the exercise set to spread to the rest of the country. Ms Sidange said the agency has issued fine tickets to 68 litterbugs and 104 people found using kaylites in those areas. The spokesperson said the campaign involves a prosecution exercise where anyone found throwing litter in an undesignated area will be fined. She said the drastic measure seeks to remind members of the public that littering is an offence. “Within two weeks of the operation in four cities we have issued tickets for fine to 68 offenders for littering, illegal dumping and throwing litter from moving vehicles. From the offenders three were companies who were recorded under level five of defaulters and were fined RTGS$600. “One of the companies was issued with an Environmental Protection Order which mandated it to a legal disposal site for dumping waste. Sixty-five offenders were individual defaulters who were fined from level one to level three. Level one defaulters pay a fine of $40 whereas those in level three pay $100,” said Ms Sidange. She said the inspection on use and distribution of kaylites ran parallel to the campaign with Beitbridge recording more than 70 percent defaulters found using the product. Ms Sidange attributed the high percentage to its location near the border post where more kaylites are smuggled into the country. “A total of 104 people who were either found using kaylites or distributing them were prosecuted. Of the 104 offenders 31 were companies. Over 70 percent of the defaulters were from Beitbridge. We also confiscated 3 970 pieces of kaylites and the bulk of it was from Beitbridge,” she said. “I would like to assure the nation that the operation is still ongoing with Bulawayo being the main target as the second largest city. We want to move into the festive season in a very clean environment.” — @michellzvanyanyan2