The Chronicle Rutendo Ngara, Chronicle Reporter THE United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) is set to be the country’s leading breast cancer treatment centre after signing an agreement with a UK based organisation to train nurses in oncology in the next four months. The nurses will be trained in the UK and they will return home to train other nurses in Matabeleland on the early diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer. The majority of the breast cancer deaths, estimated at 269 000 occur in developing countries, where most women with breast cancer are diagnosed in late stages due mainly to lack of awareness on early detection and barriers to health services. UBH is working on the project with the International Forum Association on Breast Surgery. Chairperson of the forum Mr Richard Rainsbury met surgeons, pathologists, radiologist and oncologists around Bulawayo at UBH yesterday to discuss challenges they are facing in diagnosing breast cancer. In an interview, Mr Rainsbury said the project is aimed at reducing incidents of women reporting late for treatment when the disease has advanced and cannot be treated. “We started a needs project in Bulawayo, we partnered with UBH because we signed a memorandum of understanding so that we can work together. The project has three phases and the first phase is now when we are meeting experts in breast cancer management to find out why women in this country see the doctor when the disease is advanced.” “For the next four months there is going to be a detailed survey in rural areas, villages, district and provincial hospitals and here in Bulawayo. We will then train people from Bulawayo to develop skills to diagnose breast cancer at an early stage. We have plans that at least three people will come to the United Kingdom and get trained by specialists. They will come back and be mentors to other nurses,” said Mr Rainsbury. He said the association will provide equipment required for diagnosing cancer. “The machinery that is required for diagnosis is quite simple, it is an ultrasound machine. In terms of cost, we will provide three machines that will be used here at the UBH,” he said. Mpilo head of radiotherapy Dr Tatenda Chingonzo said the project will help to address special oncology needs in the country. “They partnered with us to see where our bottlenecks are in terms of breast cancer diagnosis. This partnership will improve care and treatment of breast cancer patients in Zimbabwe,” she said. She also said if high profile people are included to spearhead the programme of breast cancer awareness, people will have enough knowledge about the disease. “We wish to incorporate people like the First Lady to be our brand ambassadors. She did a great job with the Angel of Hope Foundation in terms of cervical cancer screening.  We also wish to reach that level.” Bulawayo has only one radiologist and two pathologists who are responsible for Matabeleland North and Matabeleland South. Recent statistics from the Ministry of Health and Child Care indicate that 7 000 new cancer cases are reported annually and 60 percent of them, according to the Zimbabwe National Cancer Registry, are HIV related. Of these, only some 1 300 to 2 000 are treated with radiotherapy. — @missngara