The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT is recruiting 5 000 primary and secondary teachers and qualified job seekers must apply at the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education’s district offices countrywide this week. In June, the Education Ministry revealed that it was in talks with Treasury to recruit 5 000 teachers as there are almost 13 000 vacancies. In a statement yesterday, Primary and Secondary Education Permanent Secretary Mrs Tumisang Thabela announced that Treasury has approved the recruitment of 5 000 teachers. In January this year, Government recruited 3 000 teachers. “The Government approved and authorised the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education to recruit 5 000 teachers in 2020. These teachers shall be recruited in two batches,” said Mrs Thabela. She said those interested in the jobs should apply at the ministry’s district offices from today to Friday. “The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education will be carrying out a registration exercise for prospective teachers who will possibly fill vacancies for the 2020 financial year. As such all prospective teachers should: 1. register only once with their nearest district education officers from 18 November to 23 November 2019; 2. register only with one district education office and indicate only two provinces of their preference; 3. produce the following documents when registering: a) original teacher qualification certificates, b) original birth certificate; and c) original identity document and 4. For the infant module, applicants should provide proof of proficiency in the local languages (especially for formerly marginalised indigenous languages) spoken in the district of their preference. Our dropdown menu for this should indicate districts of preference (two),” said Mrs Thabela. “Prospective teachers already registered should go and check with their respective district education offices: a) whether their names are still in the database with all the correct details; b) and effect any changes or additions with regards to any of the information; name, contact details, qualifications, areas of specialisation and district preferences.” Mrs Thabela warned the job seekers that they should not entertain any fraudsters posing as employment agents as the recruitment exercise would only be done via its district education offices. — @nqotshili