The Chronicle Dennis Kagonye in Kariba ZPC Kariba 2-2 Harare City HARARE City coach Lloyd Chitembwe was a relieved man after his side came from the dead to snatch a point against hosts ZPC Kariba in a Castle Lager Premiership football match yesterday. Kuda Musharu and Ishmael Wadi secured the vital point for the Sunshine Boys late in the second half after Tawanda Nyamandwe had given the hosts a fifth minute lead before Jimmy Gwara doubled the scores just before the breather. Chitembwe gave credit to his players for demonstrating a commendable fighting spirit in the searing heat in this resort town where temperatures were hovering above 33 degrees Celsius. The Sunshine Boys have now stretched their unbeaten run to five games, although they still need to work hard to ensure their safety in this year’s competition. “It’s difficult to win here in Kariba but my boys showed resilience, a point is better. It will help us in easing our relegation worries. It’s back to the drawing board in our next encounter,” said Chitembwe. ZPC Kariba coach Godfrey Tamirepi rued the missed opportunity to bag maximum points at home although he still felt his charges did well following a tough week in which they had to play giants Highlanders in the Chibuku Super Cup in Bulawayo before travelling to Harare for a date against log leaders Caps United. “I think these guys played to the best of their ability but fatigue cost us as we have had to play three tough matches within a week. A point gained is better and I am happy we have kept our unbeaten run at home this season,” said  Tamirepi. Nyamandwe put ZPC ahead after only five minutes when the visitors failed to clear their lines from a corner kick taken by Talent Chamboko. Gwara then increased the lead after the water break when the visitors’ goalkeeper fumbled a freekick by Tsepo Ranthokoane. But Musharu gave the Sunshine Boys a lifeline with a 64th minute strike. Still, City refused to be buried and Wadi was at hand to give them the equaliser with 13 minutes of regulation time remaining. Harare City remained unchanged on 12th place on the log standings with 37 points. But a two-point cushion from the relegation zone may not be good enough going into the last three games of the season. ZPC Kariba also remained fourth with 46 points and are practically out of the championship race.