The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent GWANDA Municipality is set to repossess residential stands which have remained undeveloped for a long period of time. In a notice, the local authority said stand holders were expected to have started developing their stands by December 5. It listed 215 stands that will be repossessed. The municipality statement did not specify the number of years that those who would be affected have taken without developing their stands. “Notice is hereby given in terms of Section 152 (2) of the Urban Councils Act (Chapter 29:15) that it is the intention of the Municipality of Gwanda to repossess and re-allocate the residential stands listed here under to other applicants on the council waiting list following that the original holders have failed to develop the said stands,” read the notice. In an interview, Gwanda Mayor, Clr Jastone Mazhale, said the aim of the notice was to encourage stand holders to develop their land. He said some of the stands had gone for about 20 years without being developed and the desire of the municipality was to see development in the town. “We have issued a notice to repossess stands that have remained undeveloped for a long time. Our main aim is not to take stands away from people but to encourage them to come to our offices and engage our officers. Some people were allocated stands 20 years back and up to now there is no sign of development on their stands. They just disappear without any communication,” said the Mayor. “We are not saying that people should immediately build full houses but trenching up to slab level or building a durawall is a form of development that we recognise. We are giving such stand holders up to 5 December to start developing stands or to visit our offices and failure to that we will take the next step which we will communicate when the time comes.” Clr Mazhale said the municipality had issued the notice and was also going to issue letters to the stand owners in terms of the housing policy that has to be adhered to. He said some stand owners were not paying development fees. “What we want as a municipality is development in our town that is why we give  these stands to people, be it residential or commercial. Unfortunately some people acquire these stands and hold onto to them with an intent to later re-sell them at a higher price. Some people genuinely don’t have the money to develop the stands but we expect communication and compliance with council laws and regulations,” Clr Mazhale said. – @DubeMatutu.