The Chronicle Mkhululi Ncube, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT has urged school authorities to insure schools against natural disasters that are on the increase as a result of climate change. Several schools countrywide have been destroyed by hailstorms since the beginning of the rainy season. In his closing remarks at the end of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education’s three-day strategic planning review workshop in Bulawayo yesterday, the Deputy Minister of Primary and Secondary Education, Cde Edgar Moyo said those who run schools must take action to mitigate the effects of disasters. “We are in a season of disasters and for the last few years we have been experiencing increased disasters in our schools and communities. We therefore need to work on our disaster preparedness including skills development in our personnel so that we mitigate the effects of these disasters. One of the important things that we need to look at and that I have been discussing with our Provincial Education Directors is the issue of insurance for our schools,” said Cde Moyo. He said there was a need to engage responsible authorities so that schools are insured against disasters. “The concept of insurance for schools is there but I think our schools and SDCs are not taking that very seriously. In view of what is happening you need to change your mind-set and take seriously the issue of insuring buildings so that in the event of a disaster you are able to rebuild the school,” said Deputy Minister Moyo. He said in future the issue of insuring schools should be made compulsory so that pupils and teachers are not disadvantaged in the event of a disaster. The Deputy Minister said disasters strike when people were least prepared hence the convenience of an insurance. He said there is also need to change construction policies for schools so that they meet current demands. “We also need to upgrade our construction standards to counter the impact disasters. I’m looking at the whole issue of material to be used when one is building a public building like a classroom. Are we going to continue using substandard material or low quality donated material which is not strong and is perforated by a few minutes of hailstorm? We need to address all those issues so that we do not put our pupils and teachers in danger. We need to have standards,” said Cde Moyo. He said there must be stringent inspections when schools are being constructed to make sure that proper processes are followed. “It is important also to look at the inspection of our buildings and certifications at every stage of building. I know it’s happening with Government buildings but I’m not sure if that is happening to schools constructed by SDCs, councils and churches. We need supervision in that area,” he said. Education Ministry Permanent Secretary, Mrs Tumisang Thabela, said schools need to adapt to climate change. “Climate change is real and I hope the PEDs and the planning section of the ministry are working on how we can better plan for the future. The question we had after Cyclone Idai was – how can we built better? How can we come up with infrastructure which is resilient? Let us move with the times and adapt to change,” she said. — themkhust_ncube