The Chronicle A defiant Benjamin Netanyahu rejected all allegations of fraud on Thursday, saying he would not step down as Israel’s prime minister despite being indicted on a series of corruption charges. Netanyahu denounced what he called the “false” and “politically motivated” allegations, hours after being charged by the attorney general with bribery, fraud and breach of trust. He denied all wrongdoing. “What is going on here is an attempt to stage a coup against the prime minister,” Netanyahu said. “The object of the investigations was to oust the right wing from government.” Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit announced the indictment earlier on Thursday, calling it a “heavy-hearted decision” based only on solid legal evidence. But Netanyahu said the investigators “weren’t after the truth, they were after me”. In a 15-minute speech, Netanyahu railed against his political rivals and state institutions, accusing the police and judiciary of bias. The veteran politician argued it was time for an “investigation of the investigators”, and vowed to continue in his position despite potential court dates and intense political pressure. “I will continue to lead this country, according to the letter of the law,” he said. “I will not allow lies to win.” The charges raise more uncertainty over who will ultimately lead a country mired in political chaos after two inconclusive elections this year. Israeli law does not require Netanyahu to step down from the post of prime minister if indicted. The entire process of an indictment and trial could take two years. As prime minister, he would only be forced to resign from the post if he is eventually convicted, where he could face up to 10 years in prison and/or a fine for bribery charges alone, while fraud and breach of trust carry a prison sentence of up to three years. Hugh Lovatt, an Israel-Palestine analyst at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said the indictment may still not be “the end of the story”. “Israel will now have to brace for a political roller-coaster ride over the coming months. Now, more than ever, Netanyahu will be fighting for his political and personal life,” said Lovatt. — Al Jazeera