The Chronicle Rutendo Ngara, Chronicle Reporter THE Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace (CCJP) has said there is a need to tackle sexual harassment at the workplace as it affects women. Speaking during the launch of the 16 days of activism against Gender Based Violence (GBV) in Bulawayo’s Kingsdale suburb yesterday, CCPJ Provincial Director Mr Patrick Mpofu said gender-based violence has destroyed the moral fabric of society and women are mostly affected. The launch was running under the theme, “Respect, Dignity and Safety for women. Everyone has a right to a harassment free workplace. “Workplace sexual harassment has many consequences for women, their workplaces and community. It has negative effects on women’s health such as blood pressure, sleep anxiety and stress. It is detrimental to work places resulting in low productivity, an increase in absenteeism, high levels of team conflict and decreases staff retention,” said Mr Mpofu. He said the unequal distribution of power at the workplace is one of the major causes of sexual harassment. “The power imbalance that puts men over women is the root cause of sexual harassment. Some men harass women in the work place as a means to demean women who are talented, hardworking or otherwise gaining power in the work environment,” said Mr Mpofu. Creative Centre for Communication Development (CCCD) communication officer Mr Frank Jabson said according to statistics from the United Nations, at least two billion women worldwide are estimated to have experienced sexual harassment. “The community benefits if we effectively prevent workplace sexual harassment. It needs combined efforts from every citizen, government ministries and the private sector to fight against sexual harassment. The community or country can suffer from economic downturn and less social development because of the effects of sexual harassment at the workplace,” said Mr Jabson. Recently, the Zimbabwe Gender Commission (ZGC) said they were partnering with the Government to craft a policy to curb sexual harassment at tertiary institutions. Speaking during a public lecture held at the National University of Science and Technology (Nust) in Bulawayo, ZGC legal and investigations manager, Mrs Delis Mazambane, said the commission saw it fit to partner with the Government to craft laws that will govern institutions of higher learning. “We have submitted principles to the Ministry of Women Affairs, Gender and Community Development that are required for the crafting of a national policy that will protect every stakeholder at higher learning institutions from any form of sexual harassment”, said Mrs Mazambane. — @missngara.