The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter THE Zanu-PF Bulawayo provincial restructuring exercise has started with the party expected to elect District Co-ordinating Committee (DCC) members this week who will set the tone for a new look provincial leadership. Zanu-PF national political commissar Cde Victor Matemadanda, who is leading the party’s restructuring process, said the election of DCC members is set to reinvigorate the party in Bulawayo. He was speaking in an interview yesterday after meeting the interim provincial co-ordinating committee led by Cde Absolom Sikhosana at Davies Hall.  “From here we are deploying our officers to the areas to collect CVs, tomorrow (today) we will be vetting to see who qualifies and who does not qualify and the next day we go for ballot paper printing, after that voting, collation and announcement of results,” Cde Matemadanda said. “The party has to go through a renewal process all the time. That is constitutional, the constitution of the party is very clear on when cell structures should be reorganised, branch, district and the province. But this time around we have special type of restructuring where we had leadership problems and President Mnangagwa dissolved the structures in Bulawayo and Harare.” Cde Matemadanda said the DCC elections in Bulawayo would guide the election of the party’s provincial executive. He said party members who would be elected to DCC structures are together with National Consultative members, Central Committee members and Politburo members expected to represent the province at the party’s National People’s Conference next month in Goromonzi, Mashonaland East province. Cde Matemadanda said the guidelines used to select candidates to represent the party in the 2018 harmonised elections would be employed for those who want to participate in the forthcoming internal polls. “If you are talking about the criteria, we are going to use the criteria that was in the 2018 harmonised elections. The criteria that guided the election of local government candidates. There are too many items such as the minimum period a person should have served in the party, have not been subjected to disciplinary action for some period, they should be paid up party members, I do not have everything off hand but those are the most critical. The constitution should be adhered to,” he said. Politburo members who include Cde David Parirenyatwa and deputy youth league secretary Cde Lewis Matutu are some of the party’s senior officials that are expected to superintend over the DCC elections in the province. – @nqotshili.