The Chronicle Brenda Zinyuke, Court Reporter TWO men from Bulawayo have each been sentenced to 60 months in prison for stabbing a police officer seven times all over the body with an okapi knife before robbing him of his wallet and a cellphone. Mthabisi Sibanda (33), Prince Moyo (33) and Brian Moyo (29) of Entumbane suburb robbed Mr Collin Gono who is stationed at Ross Camp Police Station of $450, a police identity card, a national identity card, a PSMAS medical aid card, two FBC bank cards and a Samsung cellphone. The trio pleaded not guilty to robbery when they appeared before Bulawayo magistrate, Mr Tinashe Tashaya. The magistrate convicted Sibanda and Prince and acquitted Brian. He sentenced each of them to 60 months in prison and suspended six months for five years on condition that they do not commit any offence involving dishonesty and violence within that period. “The first and second accused person are each sentenced to 60 months in prison. Six months have been suspended for each accused person for five years on condition that they do not commit any offence involving violence and dishonesty within that period,” said the magistrate. He suspended a further six months on condition that they each restitute Mr Gono $295 before November 30. The men will serve an effective 48 months in prison. Brian was acquitted after the magistrate ruled that the State had failed to provide overwhelming evidence linking him to the offence. According to court papers, on September 18 this year at around 7PM, Mr Gono was crossing a foot bridge at Mazai River in Makokoba suburb when he was approached by Sibanda and his accomplices. The papers stated that the trio demanded his cellphone and wallet. “One of the accused persons produced a knife and stabbed the complainant as he tried to run away,” read the court papers. “The accused person further stabbed the complainant until he fell down and robbed him of his phone and wallet before disappearing into the darkness towards Mashumba Shopping Centre in Makokoba.” The court heard that one of Sibanda’s accomplices sold the phone to Ms Nomthandazo Tshuma and it was later recovered. The matter was reported to the police leading to the trio’s arrest. The total value of stolen goods is RTGS$6 590 and RTGS$6 000 was recovered.— @zinyuke98