The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent THE Minister of Environment, Climate Change, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Nqobizitha Mangaliso Ndlovu has urged farmers to establish orchards to boost the country’s food sector and at the same time fight the devastating effects of climate change. Speaking at the launch of this year’s tree planting season at Sikhathini High School in Bulilima, Matabeleland South Province on Saturday, Minister Ndlovu said the planting of fruit trees is a strategy by Government to ensure food security. He said trees are more resilient to harsh weather conditions than agricultural crops. “Food security is under serious threat due to climate change being experienced globally. Zimbabwe hasn’t been spared from the devastating effects of climate change which have a negative bearing on food security. The planting of and caring of fruits trees is a grand strategy by the Government to achieve food security. “As you are aware Matabeleland South Province falls within the dry regions of the country thereby receiving very little rainfall every year. This lends it to be susceptible to agricultural crop failures and therefore growing fruit trees becomes a strategic fallback position hedging farmers against hunger. Climate change and climate variability have made agricultural activities unsustainable,” he said. Minister Ndlovu said Matabeleland South Province was well endowed with trees and forests and non-timber forest products such as marula fruits, baobab fruits, mopani worms among others which could be used to supplement agriculture. He said the Forestry Commission working with various development partners was making significant efforts in improving food security for vulnerable rural communities through participatory sustainable forest management and valorisation of forest products and diversified livelihood strategies. Minister Ndlovu said some of the projects included capacitating farmers with marula nut cracking machines, oil pressing machines, packaging materials, market linkages, establishment of marula processing centres, construction of amacimbi processing                                                    centres and establishment of bee keeping projects. Minister Ndlovu said trees and forests played a crucial role in environmental management and in mitigating the effects of climate change hence their preservation was crucial for a sustainable environment. He said communities had to adopt a culture of planting trees and conserving them. “I am reliably informed that the rate of deforestation in Matabeleland South Province lies at more than 5 000 hectares per year which is an unacceptable figure. It’s therefore our duty to reverse deforestation through intensive tree planting and conservation. “In Beitbridge there are quite a number of individual farmers who have planted an average of 100 orange trees and they will sell their fruits to Schweppes Juicing Company. This is commendable and I would like to encourage more farmers to venture into such projects. “I would like to urge various stakeholders, law enforcement and environmental protection agencies to educate our societies about the disadvantages of forest degradation and to bring unrepentant transgressors of these anti forest activities to book,” he said. Minister Ndlovu said this year’s tree planting season was being held under the theme “Fruit trees for food security and nutrition”. He said this year’s tree is “Garcinia buchananii” also known as Granite Garcinia. He said the tree was known for its several medicinal properties and its timber was suitable for building and firewood. Also speaking during the same event Forestry Commission acting General Manager, Mr Stephen Zingwena said as an organisation they were responsible for sustainably managing forest resources in the country and ensuring that they contributed to the socio-economic enhancement of the country. He said they would continue to ensure this through promotion of seedling production and tree planting. — @DubeMatutu.