The Chronicle Innocent Mujeri, Correspondent “A jack of all trades is a master of none” is an old English adage that simply means a person cannot be an expert in all things. This saying should be rung in Mr Chamisa’s ears as he is currently biting more than he can chew. Mr Chamisa wants to be a politician, a pastor and an advocate, career paths which are worlds apart. History has shown that Chamisa is a serious attention seeker and power hungry person who wants everything to revolve around him. This is proven by his pathetic attempts to deal with serious issues that he knows nothing about, a case in point his purported Hope for the Nation Address last week on Wednesday. It’s high time Mr Chamisa is advised to only stick to issues he is well versed with as he has continued to show signs of failure and gross immaturity in everything he engages himself in. If there is anything Chamisa needs to quit quickly, then its politics. Politics has proved to be a game beyond Mr Chamisa’s capacity and comprehension. During his entire political career, Chamisa has suffered humiliating defeats in pivotal elections exposing his lack of political stamina and strategy. First it was Mwonzora who clobbered him for the post of Secretary General in 2014. The defeat relegated him to a card carrying member of the MDC T only to be plucked from the political dustbin by the benevolence of Morgan Tsvangirai. Tsvangirai had to throw the MDC T constitution to the dogs in order to accommodate Chamisa into the presidium of the party. Four years after the embarrassing defeat to Mwonzora, Chamisa found himself being drubbed again by President Mnangagwa in the 2018 Presidential election. This defeat was too heavy for him as it left him in a deranged state of mind as he went on to a produce a stench verbal diarrhoea by labelling his own supporters as “stupid people”. The numerous political blunders Chamisa continues to commit are a testimony of his gross incompetence when it comes to politics. It is as if Chamisa’s mental faculty is detached from his mouth as whatever passes through his mouth leaves a lot to be desired. At one time, he pledged his own sister to President Mnangagwa in the event the incumbent got 5 percent of the 2018 Presidential vote. It is not the pledge of a sister that is brazenly shocking but the manner Chamisa views women. It is clear that he regards women as sex objects that doesn’t have control of their destinations in life. Chamisa’s thinking that he can choose a partner for his sister is a clear testimony of his backward and chauvinistic thinking. The chauvinistic attitude of Chamisa towards women reached the tipping point when he felt threatened by his own wife at the recent MDC Alliance anniversary celebrations. Chamisa humiliated his own wife by snatching the microphone from her before completing her address clearly implying her purported “inability” to deliver a coherent speech. The scenario left many women activists calling for Chamisa to step down as the leader of the opposition outfit as his treatment of women was not fit for a leader. However, women activists should be reminded that humiliating and meting violence against women is Chamisa’s hobby. At the death of Morgan Tsvangirai, Chamisa knew for a fact that he will not stand a chance if elections for the new president of the party are to be conducted. He had to quickly anoint himself president and unleash violent thugs on Thokozani Khupe, his perceived potential challenger, in order for him to consolidate his ill-gotten power. Chamisa and his thugs threatened to burn Khupe in the hut she had taken refuge only to be rescued by the vigilante police. All this was being done by someone who calls himself a pastor, a man of God. Chamisa is a trained pastor with the Living Waters Theological Seminary. Although, he is an ordained pastor in the Apostolic Faith Mission (AFM), Chamisa must not be found near the pulpit as he lacks the moral compass to do so. His penchant appetite for lying disqualifies him from being a dignified pastor. Exodus 20:16 clearly says “Do not testify falsely against your neighbour”. Chamisa has repeatedly broken this rule. Remember the famous “Patakasangana na Trump” statement which he went on to deny on Hardtalk when he was grilled by the merciless Stephen Sackur. Chamisa’s lies are too many to mention. But the biggest lie is when he insinuated that he had won the 2018 Presidential election. He failed to substantiate this lie when he was given a chance to do so. Ma V 11 akashaikwa. To date he continues to make false claims that he won the elections and President Mnangagwa is “illegitimate”, a lie which does not have legs to stand on as he desperately wants to dialogue with the very same person he does not recognise. A pastor who lies is a disgrace to his flocks. Again a pastor who is an architect of violence is doomed and should be nowhere near God’s people. People who look up to such a pastor for spiritual guidance are destined for doom. If Chamisa wants to be a pastor, then he must snatch the moniker Comic Pastor from Prosper Ngomashi as he is more of a comedian than a pastor. Again a profession as a comedian might be a daunting task for him as most, if not all of his jokes are laced with vulgarities. But can a man who has dismally failed in politics and pastoral duties be a lawyer of repute? Chamisa claims to be a qualified lawyer. However his track record as a lawyer is not a pleasant one. His brief appearance in the court rooms has left many families wailing and cursing the day Chamisa was born. In 2015, Chamisa was part of the Zuva Petroleum legal team that defended the company against a Supreme Court challenge by a group of former managers. Through Chamisa’s efforts, Zuva won the case and this triggered massive job losses to thousands of employees. This was despite Chamisa’s repeated bragging that his party is founded on the values of protecting the workers from unfair treatment by their employers. It is a shame and a pity for a man who dreams of becoming the president of this nation partaking in causing the suffering of the masses all because of some 30 pieces of silver coins. Shame on you Chamisa. This writer’s advice to Mr Chamisa is that he should quit politics, pastoral duties and dismiss himself as an advocate as his rate of failure in all this is frighteningly shocking. Chamisa is a disgrace to the opposition politics of Zimbabwe and politics has proven to be a game beyond his capacity.