The Chronicle Juventus superstar has given the thumbs up for the club to re-sign Paul Pogba from Manchester United in January, according to reports in Spain. The French World Cup winner’s future at Old Trafford looks hazy and with United underperforming in the league, it looks only a matter of time before he seals a move away from the club. Pogba has been heavily linked with a money-spinning transfer to Real Madrid over the last year, with manager Zinedine Zidane said to be a huge admirer. But Juventus was where Pogba made his name in football and the Serie A giants are rumoured to be weighing up a move to bring him back. The Old Trafford hierarchy were thought to have valued the midfielder at around £180 million, putting off a host of suitors, but now it looks like Juventus will make an effort to get Pogba on board in January, with star player Ronaldo backing the Old Lady to wrap up the deal. Spanish outlet El Desmarque claim that the Portuguese ace has given the ‘OK’ to any possible transfer for Pogba, with Juve still searching for an elusive Champions League crown and in need of more quality to keep up with the likes of Barcelona and Real Madrid. The report says Pogba is ‘no longer the star of the team’, with Marcus Rashford, Anthony Martial and Daniel James rising to prominence with the Frenchman currently sidelined through an ankle injury. But it adds that Real Madrid and Juventus have not been put off by his recent plight and that the clubs will launch bids at an acceptable price — with £150 million the targeted sum for a player whose value is likely to have dropped after some indifferent displays. Pogba would have delighted United fans after posting a series of clips of him training on Instagram, with indications he is nearing a return to the team. He has been out since injuring his ankle against Arsenal and was given an expected return date of early December. The clips show the 26-year-old smiling next to a set of exercise bikes, before he sits down and starts pedalling. Another snippet shows him trying out a few lunges before tossing a medicine ball back and forth and finishing up on the rowing machine. The midfielder joined United in a then-world record deal of £90m in 2016, but the move has not worked out the way many would have expected — showing glimpses of the quality he clearly possesses but going missing in a number of key games. If United do opt to accept a huge offer from either Real or Juve and part ways with Pogba, they could use the funds to launch a bid for Dortmund’s English winger Jadon Sancho, who they are rumoured to be keen on, or young striker prospect Erling Braut Haaland. — Mailonline