The Chronicle Wedding of . . . Mthandazo Moyo, the fifth born child of Richard and Elizabeth Moyo of Silobela, Chief Malisa and Siphiwe Maseko, the third born child of the late Godwell and Sehlaphi Maseko of Kezi. Tied the knot on . . . October 13, 2019. We chose . . . Lakeside View in Bulawayo for our wedding ceremony and reception because of its romantic atmosphere and scenic views. How did you meet your husband? In the age of ICT where it’s easy to connect with people regardless of location and meeting face to face, our first contact was on our church youth WhatsApp group in December 2017. He requested to meet me and we met but he did not say anything along the lines of asking me out. He took me home and told me all about his life and I played a counselling role not knowing the guy was attracted to me. He then proposed in January last year but I did not have ‘that thing’ for him. I just thought he had a lot of issues to deal with so I suggested we continue as friends. I then gave it a hard thought and decided to give him a chance. On 16 October, 2018 I finally said yes to him and from there on, one thing led to the other until our wedding. How did he propose . . . We were at my place in December, 2018 and he told me he was ready to settle down with me. He went on to see my aunt and requested to come home in April. On April 22, 2019 he sent a delegation to my family to pay the bride price. Afterwards, we began planning for our wedding. Leading up to the wedding . . . It was exciting as my three right-hand persons – my matron of honour Mrs S Gumbo, my sister Mrs S Mzondiwa and my little sister Nothando Mahlambi were always there for me and ensured everything went smoothly. My then fiancé was equally supportive. Did you face any challenges preparing for the wedding? The greatest challenge was distance between the two of us as we had to do most of the planning through phones.  At times making decisions took long but most of the time we took advantage of weekends when he was around. Wedding colours . . . We chose dusty pink and navy blue as our wedding colours as we wanted something unique and elegant. My wedding dress . . . had elaborate-crystal beads with lace all over, complete with a lace veil. It was supplied by JS Collection from South Africa. The bridal team . . . was a 10-member one with Fastone Moyo as best man and Lungile Lunga as best lady. The cake . . . was a five-tier fruit cake that was accompanied by a complementary fresh cake. It was baked by Cynthia Jones Cakes. My favourite part of the wedding . . . was when the MC opened up the dance floor to our guests! I surely enjoyed every second of it especially when people came upfront to congratulate us as I saw faces I never expected to see. The most touching speech . . . was when we exchanged vows and expressed each other’s undying love during the ceremony. What was on the menu . . . The main meal comprised of rice, Isitshwala, creamed samp, macaroni, stewed beef, marinated roasted chicken, petties, potato wedges, beetroot, mixed vegetables, coleslaw salad, green salad, drinks and ice-cream with fruits for dessert. Guest list . . . 350. Photography was provided by . . . SaDee Lens Works Photography. MC: Mr N Ncube (Ceremony), Thuts from Harsh Touch (Reception). Entertainment was provided by . . . the bridal team & Harsh Touch dance group. Budget: US$4 500. Honeymoon: was in Matopo. – If you want your wedding to be featured on our Wedding of the Week column, please feel free to get in touch with the Showbiz Desk on 09-888871-9, 0774 007 233 or send an email to bnndlovu1984@gmail.com.