The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Reporter TREASURY has directed Government ministries and departments to stop charging goods and services in United States dollars or the equivalent in RTGS dollars at the prevailing interbank rate, saying no such directive had been issued. In a statement, Treasury said it was concerned that some Government Ministries, departments and agencies had resorted to charging in foreign currency even though no such directive had been issued. Treasury said Ministries and Government departments must not review fees without approval. “Treasury notes that some Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies are demanding payment for goods and/or services rendered in foreign currency or the equivalent in RTGS dollars at the prevailing interbank rate. “Section 78(1)(r) of the Public Finance Management Act (CAP 22:19) empowers Treasury to prescribe or issue instructions or directions to Ministries, whether individually or collectively, concerning the determination of any scales of fees, other charges or rates relating to revenue accruing to the Consolidated Revenue Fund,” said Treasury in a statement. “Notwithstanding the current trends where service providers are unilaterally reviewing prices of goods and services, Government remains committed to the provision of services at cost recovery levels, cognisant of the need to ensure affordability and accessibility to the general public.” It said Treasury had not approved any changes to the prevailing levels of fees and payment modalities. “Thus, Government fees, charges and levies remain at the approved RTGS dollars that were formally communicated to each Ministry, Department or Agency. “In view of the above, Line Ministries have since been directed, to desist from referencing any fees and charges to the USD, as well as unilaterally and illegally reviewing such fees without approval of Treasury,” the statement said. Responding to questions in Parliament last week, Finance and Economic Development Minister Professor Mthuli Ncube said as a matter of policy, there were no efforts to demonitise the RTGS dollar and the bond note. – @okazunga