The Chronicle Stephen Mpofu Die-hard Zimbabwean patriots have these past few days walked with their heads held high — but only just. That was after the Government on Monday took action against malcontents who have cinderalla-ed our country’s economy to regional economies and may still be hell-bent on pursuing further their rogue action in cahoots with this country’s external political enemies some of whose local surrogates are known to have vowed to splash sand in the new dispensation’s cooking pot to make the contents impossible to swallow anymore and this in the hope of achieving regime change as the net result of illegal Western sanctions imposed on the Zanu-PF Government and with that on the people of Zimbabwe as a whole. On Monday, Finance and Economic Development Minister Professor Mthuli Ncube announced a ban of the use of a multi-currency basket with the United States dollar edging other currencies including our own in popularity and with goods and services priced in US dollars and as a result sending low income earners reeling below what fractious poverty datum line existed at a particular time so that our people literally scratch the ground for a living, like chickens. When briefing local and foreign journalists on the sidelines of the African Union-United Nations Wildlife Economy Summit in Victoria Falls, also on Monday, Prof Ncube said removal of foreign currency from use, which had made the situation in this country abnormal, had been long planned. However, it is no exaggeration by this pen to suggest that many Zimbabweans may still be dazed by the multi-currency basket usage to the extent that they may be sceptical about the success of the restoration of the Zimbabwean currency of first resort. Which implicitly suggests that the Government may have to be seen by all doubting Thomas to be taking action to restore the sovereign supremacy of our local currency. Indeed all businesses cannot wishfully be expected to slash exorbitant prices they charge unless they look over their shoulders and smirk on monitors implementing the Government decisions. If real truth be told here, a lasting solution lies in God’s hands. But that hand can only manifest its presence where good governance, a commitment that The Great I Am is faithful to honour at all times. This therefore behoves on our government to act with unflinching intrepidity and with a clenched fist in weeding out those elements be they individuals, businesses or other actors who become flies in the ointment of good governance. The no-holds-barred actions that the Government is now taking against corrupt workers in its own structures is the kind of process to cleanse our society of wrong deeds and therefore the kind of move to entreat the Almighty, whose roving eye sees everything that happens on Earth and beneath the Earth, to heal our country. Add to the ongoing cleansing of our society the need to restore, and protect our country’s value system. Parliamentarians and other Zimbabweans who have recently spoken about the need to restore corporal punishment in schools as well as weed-out pregnant girls who turn those learning institutions into virtual maternity wards where mothers wait to deliver their babies, must be joined by other citizens in the crusade to restore our value system to the motherland. Similarly, legal aid institutions such as one reportedly trying to get parliament to come up with a law that brings concubines/secondary wives/hang-on-wives into the threshold of sanctified marriages in order to inherit part of the estate of a gallivanting man at their death or financial assistance before that, must be ruled out of order as this action infringes on the one-husband-one wife example that God gave with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. Is it in fact not a tragic irony that Zimbabweans who boast a literacy rating of over 90 percent on the African continent should be so lamentably, or is it wilfully, ignorant of the need to preserve its value system in order that we do not become a laughing stock to other people in the global village. Above all, the fear of God’s wrath for any and all Machiavellian conduct should superintend people’s lives in order for God’s blessings, prosperity included, to become a visible reality of life. Indeed all businesses cannot wishfully be expected to slash exorbitant prices they charge unless they look over their shoulders and smirk on monitors implementing the Government decisions