The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter ZESA holdings has introduced drones to help fight infrastructure vandalism that has cost the parastatal millions of dollars over the years. Speaking in a telephone interview recently, Zesa public relations manager Mr Fullard Gwasira described the development as a game changer in protecting the power company’s equipment. “Drones will really assist in fault location, tampering prevention, detection and reaction. They also provide photographic evidence of perpetrators and eliminate driving for location,” said Mr Gwasira. He said they will also enable the institution to cut costs as they will eliminate use of vehicles to drive for fault location. Mr Gwasira said the available drones fly within a five kilometre radius as the parastatal is engaging other stakeholders on their operations. “They have a 5km radius and this will be greatly increased when the requisite consultations are finalised,” he said. Mr Gwasira said it is disturbing that copper cable thieves are now cutting down poles or burning them to access power lines, an offence that was contributing to veld fires. “Last year alone, we lost US$5 million due to vandalism of infrastructure and primarily theft of copper cables. “We lose a lot of revenue and it becomes difficult to work on new projects and develop the country when we have to keep on replacing vandalised equipment,” said Mr Gwasira. In a statement recently, the power company’s subsidiary, the Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company (ZETDC) said vandalism of infrastructure had left more than 30 000 households without power countrywide. “Up to 30 000 households are without power due to vandalism of about 4 000 transformers, cables and associated materials. ZETDC needs about US$15 million to replace the stolen materials,” said ZETDC. According to reports, stolen copper cables are melted and then smuggled to markets such as South Africa, Mozambique and Zambia where a tonne of the metal can fetch as much as US$30 000. In 2016, four men suspected to be part of a smuggling syndicate were arrested at the Plumtree Border Post while trying to smuggle 915 kilogrammes of copper worth US$18 300 out of the country. The men were on their way to SA. — @andile_tshuma