The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter COMMUNITY leaders have urged consumers to boycott buying goods from profiteering retailers as a way to protect themselves against wanton price hikes. Following Government’s decision to scrap the multicurrency system, some retailers and other business have hiked prices of most goods. In an interview yesterday, Bulawayo United Residents’ Association chairperson Mr Winos Dube urged residents to unite and snub profiteering retailers. “As residents, things happen if we show a united front. What some of these business people are doing is unfair. We complain that the prices are not making sense but we trek there daily. Boycott those commodities and stick to basics, until they price their goods sensibly,” said Mr Dube. He said it was not fair that some business people were overpricing local products. “It is understandable that prices have gone up due to inflation. However, some of these businesses that we are seeing of late are questionable. People want to make 400 percent profit. It is unfair,” said Mr Dube. National Consumer Rights Association (NACORA) spokesperson Mr Effie Ncube said consumers should be aware of and make use of their collective power to effect change and resist unfair business practices. “They (consumers) have a right to be protected and a duty to boycott that particular service provider. Consumers have the power to bring about change through collective action. This has happened in other countries and it can work in Zimbabwe. We need to have a community spirit to show a united front so that as consumers we are not taken advantage of by these profiteering businesses,” said Mr Ncube. Industry and Commerce Minister Cde Nqobizitha Mangaliso Ndlovu warned the retail sector against sabotaging Government’s economic recovery efforts. He said Government was in the process of crafting measures of disciplining errant business conduct. “We are worried and concerned as Government on the prevailing situation, particularly in the retail sector. We are worried by the recent wave of price increases which are not only unjustified but are also grossly affecting the consumer and not good for the economy,” said the Minister. “We must all play a part in the building of this economy. However, we note that some players in the market are abandoning this process of engagement. Government will not hesitate to take action to cushion the consumer from the hardships that they are going through. Government understands the challenges and empathises with the public and I assure the nation that the process of addressing distortions in the market is progressing well.” — @andile_tshuma