The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter BULAWAYO City Council is working on tightening regulations on fire hydrants and extinguishers following concerns that many properties have over the years neglected installing proper equipment to use in case of a fire. According to council minutes, about 11 fire incidents were recorded in the city in April which led to loss of property worth US$48 000. Since January this year, the Fire and Ambulance Services department managed to inspect the city’s 547 fire hydrants and 27 percent were found to be broken down. Speaking during a full council meeting on Wednesday, Ward One Councillor Mlandu Ncube said council should go through all buildings and ensure they have fully serviced fire extinguishers. “I have noted with concern that many buildings especially in the Central Business District have no fire extinguishers which poses a danger to all of us. “We cannot sit and let people use the buildings including residential flats without extinguishers hence council should tighten its laws and pounce on everyone who doesn’t follow regulations,” said Clr Ncube. “The same way we are eager to go door by door following up on debtors should be used in checking for fire extinguishers and hydrants.” He said it was the duty of the council to shut down buildings which do not have proper equipment. Bulawayo Mayor, Councillor Solomon Mguni said he was worried about the increase in Zesa loading shedding hours. “I am concerned about the increase in Zesa load shedding as this results in increased use of candles by residents and this in turn might lead to fires. “We need to conduct fire awareness campaigns so that residents are protected” said Clr Mguni. Ward Four Councillor, Silas Chigora said there is a need for awareness campaigns. “We need to go and raise awareness in our wards starting with our own families. As you may discover we have many people who do not know where to go in case of an emergency. “We need to ensure residents have information on steps to take when a fire breaks out so that we save properties,” said Clr Chigora. He also appealed to residents to help affected families with food, clothes and blankets. “We have affected families in North End, Mpopoma and other suburbs and we need to extend our hand so that the families can at least have access to food and warmth. We appeal to Bulawayo residents to help those in need,” Clr Chigora said. — @thamamoe