The Chronicle Harare Bureau A VIDEO clip of a woman accusing Prophetic Healing and Deliverance (PHD) Ministries founder Walter Magaya of raping and impregnating her daughter went viral on social media this week, sparking debate on various platforms on the allegations. The woman, who claims to be a member of PHD Ministries, appeared so emotionally drained as she told her story. “I received a message from my daughter while I was performing my duties at church (PHD Ministries) stating that she had been raped by Prophet Magaya and that he was responsible for her pregnancy. “We are loyal members of the church. She said the prophet used to sexually abuse her. She said he used to sleep with her. They were never in love, but he just manipulated her. The daughter was manipulated through promises to pay her school fees. He even promised to take care of her needs. She was cornered until she gave in. She told me that the prophet was her child’s father. I could not believe it considering that I used to see him (Magaya) everyday at church where I loyally serve the Lord.” Efforts to get a comment from Magaya and his spokesperson failed. Pastors from his church kept on promising to respond, but to no avail. “The prophet and the elders are in a meeting,” said one of the pastors identified as Clive. “They are busy, but as soon as they finish, we will give you our response.” Magaya is currently defending another case of allegedly raping a 25-year-old Midlands State University (MSU) student who was a member of his church. He allegedly raped the girl in June 2015 at his Mt Pleasant house. The girl had accepted an invitation by the preacher to visit him, where she was shown around the house. It is alleged that Magaya left the girl alone in one of the rooms before coming back naked. The State claims Magaya forced himself on the girl and became intimate with her without protection. It is also the State’s case that Magaya gave the girl $200 after the incident. The girl reported the case to her boyfriend in July 2015. Magaya was initially charged with rape only, but is now facing more counts, including unlawful termination of pregnancy and defeating the course of justice. It is State’s case that after his arrest in September 2016, he threatened the victim using some of his congregants. According to the State, this prompted the complainant to withdraw charges against Magaya. The State pursued the case, forcing Magaya to desperately seek for the Constitutional Court’s intervention. He raised constitutional issues, arguing that it was unfair for the court to try him considering that the complainant lied against him. But the State said it was a fear-induced withdrawal and urged the court to try him. The ConCourt ruled against Magaya and the bench said he must have a day in court to answer to the accusations he is facing. Magaya was then indicted to the High Court for his trial early last year.