The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter BULAWAYO water woes are set to worsen as reports from the local authority show that two dams may be decommissioned within the next three months at a time when the city’s daily water consumption has gone up. Recently, council introduced a 48-hour water shedding schedule but daily water consumption has increased by 25 Mega Litres (MG) per day from about 120 to 145MG. According to the latest council minutes, Upper Ncema will be depleted by the end of this month while Umzingwane will run dry in September this year. “A report from the Future Water Supplies and Water Action Committee helped us establish the maximum abstractions that can be achieved per dam site if these will be still operational by the end of the year. “Upper Ncema will deplete this month as council can only abstract water from this dam via Lower Ncema. “Umzingwane on the other hand which supplies the city with 45MG of the needed daily supply of 145MG will run dry by September this year if the city receives no rainfall,” reads the minutes. Lower Ncema Dam is expected to run dry in May next year. Problems at the city’s water works stations are compounding water supply problems. “Normally, four pumps are required for Ncema and Fernhill, however only one pump is functional at Ncema as the other one has been sent for major repairs. “This has affected the pumping capacity which means residents should anticipate continued weeks of water shedding,” read the minutes. Councillors have also raised concern over wastage of stored water by residents which is affecting supplies. Bulawayo Mayor, Councillor Solomon  Mguni, encouraged residents to desist from the habit of carelessly emptying buckets and discarding stored water down the drains when supplies are restored after the water shedding period. “We are all aware that we have water challenges and we would like our residents to manage their consumption. Stored water should be used for other household chores rather than be put to waste when supplies are restored,” said Councillor Mguni. Bulawayo is said to be operating with a deficit of four dams as an additional supply dam is supposed to be constructed after every 10 years. – @thamamoe