The Chronicle Fidelis Munyoro, Harare Bureau President Mnangagwa has said those convicted of corruption will have their illegally-acquired wealth and assets forfeited to the State as part of restitution for their criminal deeds. He said his administration would rapidly and more effectively respond to the legitimate concerns of the general public with regard to tackling corruption head-on by holding the corrupt fully accountable for their misdeeds. The President said this in a speech read on his behalf by Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Sibusiso Moyo at a two-day Fraud and Corruption Conference, which opened in Harare yesterday. “In parallel with such restitution must, of course, come retribution,” he said. “Those found guilty of such corruption must be sanctioned where they can reflect upon the consequences of their greed and the shame and misfortune that greed has brought upon themselves and their families.” President Mnangagwa said Government has made progress in strengthening existing legislation and introducing extra laws to boost the Second Republic’s anti-corruption drive. Some of the significant amendments that have been made to tighten up mandatory reporting and oversight requirements feature in a number of laws such as the Public Finance Management; Insolvency; Audit; Public Entities Corporate Governance; Companies; Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets; and Money Laundering and Proceeds of Crime Acts among others. The Government is also working on a Whistle-blower’s Act to encourage and protect those who see evil being done and wish to stop it. President Mnangagwa said Government is in the final stages of appointing Commissioners to the Anti-Corruption Commission and strengthening the Office of the Prosecutor-General. Government, he said, is also building capacity in key oversight agencies such as the Auditor-General’s, Accountant-General’s and Attorney-General’s offices. “We are seeking assistance from international partners to build investigative capacity within key components of our law-enforcement agencies, those tasked with investigating and building solid evidence-based cases against the corrupt; cases which will hold up in court and lead to conviction and, where the court so-decides, incarceration and the forfeiture of assets,” he said. The President said the fight against corruption was not one that Government can wage alone urging the participants to play their role and work towards a Plan of Action, identifying roles and responsibilities for the various sectors represented at the conference. “Government and yourselves collectively, can intensify our common battle against the evil of corruption,” he said. “Together, we can and must make a difference.” President Mnangagwa said from the onset, the Second Republic’s motto has been “Zero Tolerance to Corruption,” but progress has been slow. He attributed the slow progress to resistance the State is facing which has tended to impede headway and undermine Government’s good intentions.