The Chronicle Munyaradzi Musiiwa, Midlands Correspondent GOVERNMENT had started distributing food aid to more than 170 000 households and schools in the Midlands Province. In an interview, Midlands Provincial Affairs Minister Larry Mavima said over 170 000 households in the Midlands Province are in need of food aid and about 100 000 tonnes of maize is required to sustain them until the next harvesting period. “I would want to reiterate Government policy and what President Emmerson Mnangagwa has said on many occasions that no one will die of hunger in this country. We have adequate food in our strategic grain reserves to feed those that are food insecure. In the Midlands province 170 290 households need food aid. “This translates to 8 840 tonnes of maize per month. We have been able to provide this food since the beginning of the year to all these households. We have food allocations that go to districts on a monthly basis,” he said. Minister Mavima said the food is being distributed through the Department of Social Welfare which works with councillors who are assisting in identifying those in need of aid. He said Government is prioritising child -headed families, the elderly, the disabled, widows and the vulnerable. “The food will be at the Grain Market Board (GMB). Urban dwellers are also getting food. Last week we had a situation where school pupils fainted in some schools in urban centres and we had to intervene as Government. We approached the schools and provided food for those children. We asked the schools to approach the department of Social Welfare and get assistance,” said Minister Mavima. “Community leaders who take it upon themselves to decide who gets food and who doesn’t; that is not Government policy. The policy is that anyone who is in need of food aid regardless of their political affiliation, race, creed or religion they are entitled to food aid. There is no discrimination in the distribution of food.” The Minister said the Human Rights Commission is investigating some cases involving discrimination when distributing food. “We had such situations in Mvuma and Gokwe where community leaders were found to have carried out such practices. I am glad that the Human Rights Commission is seized with the matter and those implicated are being investigated. Once the investigations are concluded appropriate action will be taken by Government,” he said.