The Chronicle PLANS are in the works to introduce concussion substitutes to football across the world; and new rules could be in place as early as 2021. Uefa requested a review of current regulations in May, asking global rule makers International Football Association Board (IFAB) and Fifa to prevent concussed players from returning to the field of play. The request came after a number of incidents, including a frightening injury to Jan Vertonghen in Tottenham’s Champions League semi-final clash with Ajax. There are currently different procedures across different competitions and governing bodies, with Premier League rules set out by the FA different to Uefa guidelines. But worldwide organisation FIFPRo, who represent professional players, are also pushing for change, with Uefa president Aleksander Ceferin confirming plans are being discussed. Proposals would see additional substitutes allowed to remove players from the field to undergo thorough concussion testing, similar to the temporary head injury assessment changes now permitted in rugby across the world. “After Vertonghen’s situation I was scared that something would happen,” Ceferin said. “Because it was clear when he came back that he didn’t feel well. He could die there. We will have discussions with Fifa about it to change the laws of the games. Assessment is easier (in 10 minutes). Now it is crazy. And you can die because of that. “I don’t see it as a problem. Fifa is also interested in solving this issue. If something were to happen we would regret it forever. You have to do something. And if it helps one out of a million players, you did everything (you could). “The rule change wouldn’t influence the game, change the game or make it less interesting. Now it (the situation) will move. Fifa is very, very interested in this.” The involvement of Fifa and, crucially, IFAB, in the reforms would likely mean changes being introduced to all global professional competitions, including the Premier League and Champions League. – Mirror.co.uk