The Chronicle Corporal Matekenya Yona The Zimbabwe National Army has received praise for the humanitarian work and assistance the organisation rendered during Cyclone Idai induced tropical storm which ravaged the eastern highlands in March 2019. The cyclone, whose effects were most severe in Chimanimani and Chipinge areas, also affected parts of Bikita, Gutu, Zaka and Chiredzi districts in Masvingo province. Communities in the affected areas in Masvingo Province saluted the Zimbabwe National Army for the patriotic and professional service exhibited during operations to rescue Cyclone Idai victims. “We salute the ZNA for the patriotic and professional service it displayed during the operation to assist victims of Cyclone Idai. “Let us join hands in mitigating the impact of the cyclone,” said one of the villagers, Mr Ananias Mukushwa of Nemaveni Village, Bikita South Constituency. The Commander 4 Infantry Brigade, Brigadier General Exsebious Tshuma, visited the affected areas in Masvingo Province to assess the damage caused by the cyclone and assured the villagers of the Army support. “As ZNA, we are ready to assist communities whenever the need arises as it is part of our military obligation to assist communities,” said Tshuma. Working in direct support of other national emergency services, the ZNA facilitated deliveries of food aid and non-food items to villagers in Bikita, Zaka, Chiredzi and Gutu districts. This was not the first time that the ZNA had assisted communities in such disasters. In the past, the Organisation assisted in disasters such as Cyclone Eline and the Tugwi Mukosi floods in 2001 and 2011, respectively. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe School of Infantry in Mbalabala donated 11 bales of clothes to Cyclone ldai survivors on April 5, 2019. The donation was handed over to Matabeleland South Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Cde Abednico Ncube in Esigodini. The Commandant Zimbabwe School of Infantry, Colonel Philip Maranjisi, who was represented by General Staff Officer (Grade Two) Civil Military Relations, Major Herbert Redzo, said the school was touched and found it necessary to contribute towards alleviating the plight of the affected people. “As the School of Infantry, we were touched and we managed to mobilise this donation. We hope it will go a long way in helping the Cyclone Idai survivors,” he said. The Minister of State for Matabeleland South, Cde Abednico Ncube said he was gratified by the donation from the School. “I am happy with the donation by School of Infantry for the survivors of Cyclone Idai who are in need of assistance. I am appealing to Zimbabweans to continue donating in cash and kind towards this humanitarian cause,” he said.