The Chronicle Mandla Moyo EVERY year thousands gather in different parts of the country to celebrate the sacrifices made by men and women from the “home of the brave”. These men including women who make up the Zimbabwe Defence Forces have sacrificed both life and limb in defence of their motherland which in turn saw the country attain its Independence in 1980. Some are still serving while others have passed over the baton to a younger generation fused with a lot of older wise minds for guidance. Others sadly passed on during various battles that they were called to task thus putting their lives in the line of fire as they defended their birthright. All these men and women have something in common hence they have stood the test of time which has seen the nation recognise their efforts annually through the Defence Forces’ Day. President Mnangagwa, who is also the Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, will lead proceedings at the national commemoration of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces today at the National Sports Stadium in Harare.  Provincial ministers and other appointed ministers will represent him at other commemorations to be held at provincial and district centres countrywide. Being a soldier is tough. It is not a calling for the weak but for the brave and dedicated ones who will go on to put the uniform with pride. They are separated from their families; endure hardship to survive deadly battles. Truly it is a noble as well as an expensive profession for its greatest capital is “Life”. Spending life away from your family, away from the comfort of your home, away from your community is no easy task. It takes a lot of dedication, discipline as well as commitment to go through the mill where some have vanished in the middle of the night when others were  sleeping when the going got tough. The brave disciplined ones soldiered on till the end which is usually graced by ululating relatives who come to witness the occasion as is the norm during pass-out parades. This usually happens after the gruelling periods ranging from a minimum of a six months journey at various recruit training depots or 18 months at the Zimbabwe Military Academy. However, sacrifices do not end on their graduation day but go on to be part of their daily life during their entire service which is usually full of a lot of challenges. The outstanding ones during their career do not escape the recognition of their superiors which has seen them being awarded various medals depending on the gravity, time and the task at hand. These awards range from the Independence Medal, Ten Year Service Medal, the Bravery Medal among other medals up for the taking within the forces. For that reason, on this day the nation gives a salute to its defence forces! May God bless them and let there be peace on earth.