The Chronicle Wedding of . . . Elvis Israel Hweta, the first son of Kasirayi and Edith Hweta from Chivhu and Linda Mkumbuzi, the second daughter of Wilfred and Sibongile Mkumbuzi from Jambezi, Victoria Falls. Tied the knot on . . . August 25, 2019. I met my husband . . . In 2011 at an SDA church youth camp in Matopo. Later that year, he asked me out but I declined the proposal because I thought he wasn’t serious. We became friends by default and I found myself disclosing information to him that even my boyfriend then did not know. In 2013, we joined a singing group called Praise Family Choir and this time, we even got closer as friends, though we had moments when we would fight and it annoyed him so much. In May 29, 2015, he told me he loved me and I realised I loved him too. That’s how we started dating. How did he propose? It happened last year. We had gone to Harare for a music programme and on my birthday (October 18), he took me out to Sam Levy’s Rocco Mamas restaurant for a snack. As we were having our snack, the Rocco Mamas staff came singing happy birthday with all sorts of gifts from him. As I was still in awe, he suddenly went on one knee and asked me to be his wife. I said yes, as I knew he was the one for me from the day we started dating. How did you break the news to family and friends? My eldest sister Wendy and friends were present when he proposed so the news spread faster than I anticipated. We chose . . . Eqaqeni Gardens in Bulawayo’s Hillside suburb for the ceremony because it has a beautiful garden and we wanted a garden ceremony. Thereafter, we held the reception at the ZITF Hall 5. Wedding colours . . . Navy blue and champagne gold. Wedding dress . . . Mermaid wedding gown supplied by Neptiaux Et Perles Boutique. Bridal team . . . comprised Praise Dziva as best man and Nomzamo Mkumbuzi as best girl. Cake . . . was done by Rose Cakes owned by Silabhelo Moyo from Bulawayo. Favourite part of the wedding . . . was saying our vows and the kiss. Most touching speech . . . was the sermon by Pastor T Sibanda who quoted a verse from Genesis Chapter 2 which says no other creature suited Adam perfectly after creation but when Eve was created, Adam named her and said flesh of my flesh and bone on my bone. This meant we were perfectly created for each other. He said God is the designer of marriage and when we have problems, we should consult Him, not anyone else. Did you face challenges during wedding preparations? Yes, we did face a couple of challenges, but together, we overcame them. The challenges included family politics. Guest list . . . 700 people. Photography was provided by . . . Vootography and Videography Excel Studios. MC . . . Makomics & Washie. Entertainment was provided by . . . Klarity Sounds, DJ Pro. Budget . . . $5 000. Honeymoon . . . we travelled to Victoria Falls and South Africa. –If you want your wedding to be featured on our Wedding of the Week column, please feel free to get in touch with the Showbiz Desk on 0292-888871-9, 0774007233 or send an email to bnndlovu1984@gmail.com.