The Chronicle Sharon Buwerimwe, Court Reporter A MAN from Bulawayo who impersonated a journalist has been exposed after he was arrested for allegedly stealing electronic gadgets and meat in New Lobengula suburb. Malvin Phiri (24) from New Lobengula who identified himself as, Terrence, claimed that he was a Zimpapers employee as he used fake credentials to access court documents. Phiri claimed he was interested in unlawful entry cases. When police arrested him for unlawful entry, it was discovered he had skipped community service for stealing tithes at Harvest House International church and was not a journalist. It is alleged that Phiri broke into Mr Khetholwenkosi Ndlovu’s (25) house in New Lobengula suburb using a duplicate key and stole property valued $700. Phiri pleaded not guilty to a theft charge before West Commonage magistrate, Mr Stephen Ndlovu. He was remanded in custody to today for continuation of trial. Phiri told one of police officers working at West Commonage that he was reporting for The Chronicle. “He told me that he is a journalist and is allowed to have access to court documents and information,” he said. “Phiri was masquerading as a scribe. I knew him for almost a month and I thought he worked with journalists from The Chronicle. I’m so shocked after finding out that he has pending cases as a thief.” Prosecuting, Mr Kenneth Shava said on Tuesday this week, at around 7AM, Phiri took advantage of Mr Ndlovu’s absence from home and gained entry into his house. “He took a speaker box, Vodafone cellphone, Samsung cell phone and 3kg beef,” he said. Mr Shava said Mr Ndlovu returned home after work and found out that his property was   missing.Mr Ndlovu followed footprints of the suspect leading to Phiri’s home who is his neighbour. Mr Ndlovu apprehended Phiri and recovered a speaker box and his two cell phones and reported the matter to police leading to Phiri’s arrest. Previously, Phiri had been arrested and sentenced to do community service for stealing tithes and electrical gadgets at Harvest House church in the city. It is reported that Phiri defaulted doing community service at Magwegwe Police Station and started masquerading as a journalist at West Commonage courts.—@sharonbuwe