The Chronicle Grace Chingoma, Harare Bureau MIGHTY Warriors’ skipper Talent Mandaza says they are fully aware of the threat posed by a Zambian side which has always been their bogey side as they meet in the second round Olympic qualifiers at Nkoloma Stadium tomorrow. The reverse fixture will be played on Sunday at the National Sports Stadium. The Mighty Warriors left for Lusaka by road yesterday and veteran midfielder, Mandaza, believes they have done their homework well against a familiar side which they have played numerous times. “The Zambia game is a derby match which will be very tough. They are a physical team but we have prepared for them because we really know them,” she said. The Black Rhinos midfielder says they will go for the jugular during tomorrow’s first leg tie. Usually the Mighty Warriors do well away and appear to choke at home. “With Zambia, we normally don’t have a home or away match, our games are just intense but we are just hoping for an away goal and at the same time avoiding defeat. “We are going all out for victory,” said Mandaza. The Zimbabwe senior women’s soccer team participated at the 2016 Rio Games where they made history as the first football team to feature at such prestigious Games. However, Mandaza reckons that’s it’s a mean task repeating that feat again and qualifying for the Tokyo Games in Japan next year. Only two teams from the continent gets a chance to represent Africa at the Olympics. Zimbabwe and South Africa were at the previous Games while Cameroon and Nigeria are the only other African teams to have featured at the Olympics. “I believe anything is possible. “To be honest, it’s going to be difficult to qualify again, it will be tough. But we believe in impossibilities and in 2015 we managed to upset Cameroon when the odds were very much against us. And this time too it is the same story,” said Mandaza. The winner between Zimbabwe and Zambia will, in the third round meet, the winner between South Africa and Botswana. Caf has 1.5 slot(s) in Tokyo 2020, which means the winner of the fifth round qualifies for the Olympics, while the runners up will take on Copa America runners-up Chile in a play-off. Mighty Warriors final squad Goalkeepers: Lindiwe Magwede (Herentals), Chido Dzingirai (Black Rhinos). Defenders: Nobukhosi Ncube (Correctional), Sheila Makoto (Blue Swallows), Lynett Mutokuto (Black Rhinos), Nobuhle Majika (MSU), Sithembile Nyoni (Weerams), Lincie Mpaya (Harare City), Talent Mukwanda (Herentals). Midfielders: Talent Mandaza (Black Rhinos), Marjory Nyaumwe (Correctional), Mavis Chirandu(Black Rhinos),  Danai Bhobho (Harare City), Felistas Muzongondi (Black Rhinos), Emmaculate Msipa (Black Rhinos). Strikers: Rudo Neshamba (Harare City), Erina Jeke (Correctional), Shamiso Mutasa (Auckland).