The Chronicle Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau BEITBRIDGE Chief Vho Stauze (David Mbedzi) has urged Government to capacitate the District Development Fund (DDF) which is currently facing a litany of service delivery challenges. He said DDF was a key actor in pushing for rural development, hence the need to boost its capacity to deliver. Addressing delegates during the recent clean-up exercise in Beitbridge which was also attended by Vice President Kembo Mohadi, the traditional leader said the state of affairs at most DDF premises was a cause for concern. “I am pleading with the Government to resuscitate DDF, one of the key departments which plays a pivotal role in our lives, especially in the rural areas. They have been very instrumental in servicing roads, bridges, agriculture production, water and sanitation but now they are crippled by resource shortages,” said Chief Stauze. “In my view they need capacitation in terms of tractors and other equipment in order for them to bring back the glory days and deliver. In some cases we understand that some of their equipment has succumbed to wear and tear and needs to be replaced. It is also sad to note that we have a problem with access to potable water in some areas around our district and at the same time DDF is reportedly having challenges in moving borehole drilling equipment”. The chief also lambasted the high level of pollution at the local DDF district offices. Chief Stauze said there is general littering and dust rising from a truck park near the DDF complex. “We know things are bad, but our appeal is that Government allocates some funds to Beitbridge Municipality or DDF to pave roads around that area and employ proper environment management methods. “It’s by God’s grace that a major health disaster has not affected the DDF workers and others near that complex,” said Chief Stauze. He said it was of paramount importance for Government to address accommodation shortages for its workers in Beitbridge. “We are happy that Vice President Mohadi is here with us and will look at our challenges with the urgency they deserve,” said the traditional leader.