The Chronicle Chronicle Reporters THOUSANDS of people gathered at different venues yesterday to mark the Zimbabwe Defence Forces Day and the crowds were wowed by performances’ by members of the armed forces and other invited groups. In Bulawayo, the ZDF Day was celebrated at White City Stadium where scores of residents gathered in recognition of the contributions made by the ZDF. The proceedings started at about 11AM with the arrival of service chiefs while other senior Government officials had already taken their seats. The arrival of Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Judith Ncube marked the commencement of the programme. Cde Ncube inspected the ZDF parade which conducted its marching drills to the delight of the members of the public who were closely following the proceedings. The Zimbabwe National Army brass brand also provided entertainment before the Premier High School brass band charmed the public with its performance which saw children breaking into dance as they played current and popular songs. Adults were also wowed with their performance and the band was requested to perform again. Cde Ncube read President Mnangagwa’s speech at about 12:40PM. Industry and Commerce Deputy Minister Cde Raj Modi, Bulawayo Town Clerk Mr Christopher Dube, Bulawayo Senator Cde Molly Mpofu, Zanu-PF politburo members Retired Colonel Tshinga Dube and Cde Absolom Sikhosana, war veterans’ Bulawayo provincial chairman Cde Cephas Ncube were among those who attended. In Matabeleland North scores of people including youths from across the province gathered at Somhlolo Stadium in Lupane as they joined the nation in celebrating Defence Forces’ Day. Provincial Affairs Minister Richard Moyo, who was Guest of Honour, arrived at the venue at 11AM before the main proceedings started. He inspected the parade mounted by members of the Zimbabwe National Army, Zimbabwe Republic Police and Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services. Thereafter the parade marched in quick and slow marches across the square before Minister Moyo read the President’s speech. Present were service chiefs, newly elected Member of Parliament for Lupane East Cde Mbongeni Dube, Proportional Representation MP Cde Elizabeth Masuku, Central Committee member Cde Collet Ndebele, Zanu-PF Matabeleland North Women’s League chairperson Cde Medeline Bhebhe and heads of various government departments. A ZPCS band and pupils from various schools in Lupane entertained the crowd while ZNA 1.2 Infantry Battalion owned Moto Moto FC clashed with Lupane Hotspurs in a Defence Forces’ Soccer final in the afternoon. In Matabeleland South Province, scores of people gathered at Pelandaba Stadium in Gwanda to celebrate the day. Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Abednico Ncube inspected the guard of honour before reading the President’s speech at around 12noon. In attendance were service chiefs, heads of government departments, civil servants, Members of Parliament, residents, among others. The Zimbabwe National Army band kept the crowd entertained while the Zimbabwe Defence Forces also displayed their drills. Local artistes also provided entertainment among them Zhezhingtons, Vumbachikwe Sounds, Borirwa Dance Group, Sabiwa Primary School Traditional Dance Group and Matrix.