The Chronicle THE late Vice President Dr Simon Muzenda, one of the country’s illustrious sons of the soil, was a humble man whose humility belied his lofty standing as one of the founding fathers of the nation. Unlike his contemporaries who had acquired significant wealth and a high social and political standing like him, Dr Muzenda was strikingly simple. “Dr Mzee”, as he was affectionately known, would speak in his mother tongue – Shona with the distinct Karanga accent, dressed simply and spent most of his free time at his rural home in ZvavaHera in Gutu District. He was generous and socially conscious and as such, was a huge benefactor in Masvingo Province as he paid fees for dozens of people, provided clothing, accommodation and comfort for the poor. Upon his death on September 20, 2003, he was declared a National Hero and the Government declared three days of mourning as a sign of respect. He was buried at the National Heroes’ Acre on September 24. Thousands of mourners converged at the national shrine to witness his burial. In his address at the national shrine during the burial of Dr Muzenda, former president Mr Robert Mugabe described his departed comrade-in-arms as “the very pith of our nation, its soul, its guardian, its revolutionary spirit which cruel fate sought to destroy that afternoon of September 20.” Mr Mugabe added: “We grieve at being so orphaned, grieve at the loss of one so important, one whose departure shakes us to the firmament. The man who lies still before us touched the lives of many people, spoke to all age groups and I dare say, is destined to speak to future generations of our nation.” Condolence messages poured in from all over the world, including Palestine, Malawi, Botswana, United States of America, Mozambique, Zambia and South Africa. As leaders from friendly countries mourned Dr Mzee, it was the outpouring of grief by members of the public, the beneficiaries of his generous hand that triggered nationwide emotions. They included widows, orphans and the poor. Sekuru Muzenda had built houses for more than 20 people in his village and the departure of their Sekuru was hard to contain. When his body was flown to his rural home in ZvavaHera, literally every villager was  mourning. Although politics was his first love, the luminary also had time for other interests. At the time of his death, he was patron of the Zimbabwe Football Association and was a central figure in the hosting of the Gutu Half Marathon, a national event that attracted some of the country’s best marathon runners to his home area every year.