The Chronicle Oscar Rusenga in Triangle Triangle United Football Club hosted a fundraising dinner Saturday night at Triangle Country Club to raise funds towards their Caf Confedration Cup campaign. The Tongaat Hullet bankrolled club is representing the nation in the 17th edition of Africa’s secondary club competition and have started well in their preliminary first leg match hammering Rukinzo of Burundi 5-nil at Barbourfields last Sunday. Triangle players, technical and executive headlined the event which was a great success but the players were there for just an hour as they were preparing for a crunch clash against FC Platinum in Match Day 18 of the Castle Premier Soccer League. Ticket packages for the dinner were RTGS$350 per person and RTGS$3 500 per table for admittance with dinner. Moonlight Funeral Services, Croco Motors, Main Protective Clothing, ZB Bank, CBZ Bank, Gain Cash & Carry, BOC Gases, Nyaradzo, Pro Bottlers DDH & M and Halship investments were the main notable corporates who were present supporting the Sugar Sugar Boys. Zifa Eastern region led by Tedious Machawira was also present and contributed immensely to the same cause of raising the Zimbabwean flag high. Tongaat Hullet human resources director Fred Nyangwe was the guest of honour and in his opening remarks acknowledged the presence of everyone who came to support. “We are very happy to have you dine with us today. It has been an amazing journey since we turned professional in 2011. We got promoted into the top flight in 2013 and just six years down the line we are representing the country. “We had some memorable achievements in the past few years, we won the NetOne Cup in 2015, finished fourth in 2016 and 2018 was our big year winning the Chibuku Super Cup which earned us a ticket to be among the finest in Africa as well as finishing in top four the same year. “We are confident that this year we will do much better as we look to challenge all tournaments and the championship as well as represent Zimbabwe well in the African Safari”, said Nyangwe. The dinner dance raised just above               RTGS$55 000 and the main actors were Tongaat Hullet Zimbabwe and Main Protective Clothing who bought platinum tables for $7 000 each. Moonlight also raised a significant amount buying a table for RTG$6 000 and donating extra RTG$2 500. Three Triangle football replicas were auctioned and the most expensive one was bought for $500 by one supporter Irvine Maulidi who is also a Triangle employee. Club chairman Lovemore Matikinyidze was happy the dinner was a success and promised to deliver whenever they go out. “I am very happy for the support that I have received from every one of you. As a chairman I want to thank you you on behalf of TUFC and we want to promise you that we will do our best to represent you so that you will appreciate the value of your hard earned contributions. We will go out there and bring the best results just like we did when we beat Rukinzo in Bulawayo last week,” he said.