The Chronicle Staff Sergeant Edmore Chaipa The Zimbabwe National Defence University (ZNDU) is set to introduce new programmes at different faculties. This was revealed by Vice Chancellor and Commandant of the ZNDU, Air Vice Marshal (Dr) Michael Tedzani Moyo during a graduation ceremony of Master of Science in International Studies Degree (MSc IS) and the National Defence Course 07/2018. AVM Moyo said the Faculty of Engineering was finalising on the launch of two more programmes, namely; the Bachelor of Science (Hons) in Aviation (Aircraft Systems and Operations) for trainee pilots, and the Bachelor of Science (Hons) in Aviation (Air Traffic Management) for trainee Air Traffic Controllers at the affiliate School of Flying Training in Gweru. The University was currently running the Bachelor of Science (Hons) in Aerospace Engineering, and the Master of Science in Software Engineering degrees. He said the Faculty of Social Sciences which offers the Master of Science Degree in International Studies would enrol students on four new programmes including a Master of Science in Peace and Conflict Management in 2020. The VC and Commandant said to this end, more resources were needed to fulfil the vision. To this end a Business Development Department was set up to explore business opportunities to raise additional financial resources for the sustenance of university operations. The ZNDU is one of the selected universities by Government through the Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development to host an Innovation Hub. The Hub will have six research departments mainly; Defence Technology, Special Projects, Pure and Applied Sciences, Computer Science and Software Engineering, Application and Commercialisation and Aerospace Technology. AVM Moyo paid tribute to the ZDF hierarchy, Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Professor Amon Murwira and the University Council for their resolute and unwavering support to the university. The ZNDU was launched on November 16, 2018. Before the launch, the National Defence College was affiliated to the University of Zimbabwe for academic programmes, and had been assisted to run five intakes of the Master of Science Degree in International Studies by the UZ.