The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili/ Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporters THE Bulawayo City Council has said it resorted to water disconnections as its financial situation is dire and residents had to pay to ensure uninterrupted service. In an interview yesterday, the Town Clerk, Mr Christopher Dube described water disconnections as a last resort to recover part of what the city is owed by ratepayers, as its books are in shambles due to non-payment of rates. “The situation is very bad now because residents are not paying their dues. Disconnections are done as a last resort to encourage rate payers to honour their obligations or at least pay something and make payment plans to enable council to continue with the provision of services,” said the Town Clerk. He said water disconnections had since divided residents, with some being for the idea while others felt that it was too harsh. “The disconnections have received mixed feelings from the residents. Those who are paying their dues are happy to see council doing something about defaulters. “Some defaulters have come forward to pay what they can afford and made payment plans. Alas, there are those who simply don’t want to pay and we’ve complaints mainly on affordability challenges. However, as council we’ve an obligation to collect revenue and all the efforts are not in any way meant to punish our citizens but to cater for their welfare,” said the Town Clerk. Municipal banking halls were a hive of activity over the weekend and the whole day yesterday as residents rushed to service their accounts and negotiate for payment plans. At Nkulumane housing office, some residents who spoke to the Chronicle said they had last paid their rates in 2018 as they were struggling to make ends meet. “I am struggling. I am surviving on money from tenants at my house, so it becomes difficult to pay rates. But now since they are disconnecting water I have no choice but to just pay. I brought money for three months so I am hoping that I will be able to make a payment plan. The queues are just too long,’ said Mrs Nancy Lunga, a resident. Bulawayo United Residents’ Association chairperson, Mr Winos Dube, urged Government to intervene in the matter to ensure that ratepayers are protected in the prevailing difficult economic times. Mr Dube urged residents to be responsible citizens and make efforts to meet their obligations as residents of the city. However, he called on council to find more innovative ways of generating revenue than relying on rate payers. “We call on Government to intervene on the matter and ensure that the resident’s right to water is protected. This is a clear indication that things are difficult. “We urge Government to continue working to turn around the economic fortunes of the country and to intervene to protect citizens from such harsh decisions,” Mr Dube said. “It is not by design that we owe council but economic challenges visible to all and the obtaining situation generally is hindering the majority of residents to service their accounts. “We urge Bulawayo residents to make efforts to pay the little that they have regularly. “It is better to pay the little that you can afford on a regular basis than to totally ignore the debt and watch it ballooning. However, we want councils that are innovative and not dependent on rate payers. There must be commercial inflows that are sustaining councils and subsidising rate payers. “What happened to Aisleby Farm and Ingwebu Breweries that were once cash cows for the council? The council of the time made such investments so that they could finance council projects, putting less pressure on the rate payer.” — @nqotshili @andile_tshuma.