The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE Zimbabwe National Road Administration (Zinara) has dismissed social media reports indicating that vehicle licence fees will be increased with effect from today by more than 500 percent. The reports, which started circulating on Tuesday, urged motorists to buy licence discs possibly for the whole year, claiming that Zinara would increase licence fees on August 1 by more than 500 percent. Motorists are currently paying RTGS$20 for a vehicle licence per term. Zinara spokesperson, Mr Augustine Moyo, yesterday told Chronicle that the reports were false and urged motorists not to panic. He said motorists would be advised in time about any impending changes to road user charges. Mr Moyo said such information would follow normal Government channels and would not be relayed through social media. “It has come to the attention of Zinara that there are social media reports circulating regarding an imminent increase of vehicle licence fees by more than 500 percent. “Zinara is a parastatal under the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructural Development and as such any upward review in the vehicle licence tariffs will be formally communicated to Zinara by the parent Ministry,” said Mr Moyo. He said Zinara revenue streams were statutory and therefore, could not be reviewed without being gazetted. Mr Moyo, however, urged all motorists to comply with vehicle licensing saying there are a number of vehicles that were unlicensed. He said it is common cause that there have been tariff reviews in other sectors and if there is a review of road user charges, the communication of same would be done through formal and statutory means. “The changes of road user charges are a governmental process which has its own timelines and hence the public should not jump the gun. “Therefore, there is no need for the motoring public to panic as the information is meant to cause alarm and despondency. Motorists would be advised in time of any impending changes to road user charges and such information would follow normal Government channels and not follow social media,” said Mr Moyo. – @pamelashumba1