The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter ALL State universities and polytechnic colleges in Zimbabwe should operate in line with President Mnangagwa’s vision of ensuring the country achieves an upper middle income economy status by 2030. This was said by Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Minister, Professor Amon Murwira, during the graduation of 2 149 students at Bulawayo Polytechnic yesterday. Prof Murwira said it was important for graduates and all institutions to work towards economic revival while making use of Education 5.0 system. Under the system, the Ministry is emphasising on industrialisation and innovation. In a speech read on his behalf by the Ministry’s permanent secretary, Professor Fanuel Tagwira, the Minister said industrialisation and innovation were crucial in achieving Vision 2030. “The major anchor of the new Education 5.0 system are the two pillars namely innovation and industrialisation which every institution must promote in all operations. These two pillars are central to the overall goal of ensuring education plays an important role in the country’s achievement of an upper middle income status by 2030,” said Prof Murwira. “It is the vision championed by President Emmerson Mnangagwa through our Ministry that will help transform our country and all our institutions should be in line with this vision.” According to Prof Murwira, Zimbabwe has already received invitations from other countries to share the Education 5.0 philosophy. “In December the Minister will address fellow Higher Education Ministers, Vice Chancellors from 65 Universities on the Education 5.0,” he added. Prof Murwira also urged graduates to be innovative in furthering their education as state universities were willing to help them acquire degrees. “Though the National Qualifications Authority we have also created pathways for graduates from institutions like Bulawayo Polytechnic to enter into Universities without being expected to start in first year like A-Level graduates because they already have knowledge and skills that should count towards their degree programme,” said Prof Murwira. Bulawayo Polytechnic principal, Mr Gilbert Mabasa said the institution had recorded an increase in graduates and enrolment which was a good sign despite the ongoing economic challenges. “We continue to rise and improve despite challenges and we have a total of 5 600 students registered at the moment. We recorded a 12 percent increase in enrolment and our public examination pass rate has been improving since 2016,” said Mr Mabasa. He said the institution’s enrolment also reflects an improved gender representation as females now constituted 46 percent of the total students. — @thamamoe