The Chronicle Michell Zvanyanya, Chronicle Reporter GENDER activists have expressed concern over the increase in sanitary wear prices despite the removal of excise duty last year. Announcing the 2019 national budget last November, Finance and Economic Development Minister Professor Mthuli Ncube removed duty on sanitary pads. Activists have over the years pleaded with Government for duty free and subsidised sanitary pads to no avail. A survey by The Chronicle yesterday revealed that most outlets in Bulawayo are selling sanitary pads at prices above $9. In an interview yesterday, Bulawayo Proportional Representative MP, Ms Priscilla Misihairabwi-Mushonga said Government should provide sanitary wear for free particularly to young girls in schools because it is not affordable despite the removal of excise duty. “Government should push for providing free sanitary cups to girls in schools because they are more sustainable as they can be used for almost three years,” said Ms Misihairabwi-Mushonga. “The amendments that were passed by the National Assembly two weeks ago stipulated that sanitary wear must be given for free in schools because it is not affordable. This shows that provision of sanitary wear for free is now a legal issue.” Matabeleland Widows and Single Parents Trust Director, Ms Sipho Nsimbi said sanitary wear is now beyond the reach of the majority of girls and women across the country. She urged the Government to ensure easy access to sanitary wear by making them more affordable. Ms Nsimbi said her organisation has embarked on a project to make reusable pads that are accessible to girls at both primary and secondary schools. “The organisation has actively promoted use of reusable pads as a local solution to inaccessibility of disposable ones for most ordinary girls and women in the country due to high prices,” she said. “We have managed to donate the reusable pads to both primary and secondary schools where they have been widely accepted by most girls. The organisation also carries out educational programmes where the girls are taught how to appropriately use the pads to promote menstrual hygiene.” — @michellzvanyanyan2