The Chronicle Michell Zvanyanya, Chronicle Reporter Tsholotsho Rural District Council (RDC) has proposed to increase tariffs   and other service charges for the year 2020. In a notice, Tsholotsho RDC said the proposed upward review is in line with the Rural District Councils Act. “Notice is hereby given in terms of section 76 and 96 of the Rural District Councils Act (Chapter 29:13) that Tsholotsho Rural District Council proposes to impose or increase levies, licence fees and other charges payable to council with effect from 1 January 2020,” read the notice. Tsholotsho stakeholders have been given 30 days to submit objections if any, to the proposal. “Any person wishing to object to the above proposals should do so in writing to the undersigned within 30 days of this notice,” read the notice. Contacted for comment, Tsholotsho RDC treasurer, Mr Khumbulani Hlabangani said council is set to hold budget consultation meetings in all the district wards to create a platform for stakeholders to air their views and assess the proposed tariffs that affect their businesses. He said it was important for residents to be part of the meetings to make an input into the 2020 budget which has an impact on service delivery of the district. Mr Hlabangani said the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing had urged local authorities to allow communities to participate in the crafting of the budget. “The council is going to hold meetings with all the wards the district from the 25th to 27th of this month to inform stakeholders that the council has begun the process of consulting next year’s budget. “The meetings are also meant to create a platform for stakeholders to inspect relevant tariffs that affect their businesses,” he said. In a related issue, the Bulawayo City Council has started holding its 2020 budget consultation meetings in the city’s 29 wards. Stakeholders who are expected to attend the meetings include transport operators, youths, business communities, civil society organisations, residents’ associations and informal traders. — @michellzvanyanyan2