The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A GWANDA taxi driver fatally ran over a cop in a hit and run incident and allegedly hanged himself in a bush near the scene. Nqobile Nkomo (26) of Phakama Suburb who was driving a Fun Cargo ran over Constable Blackson Muzamba who was stationed in Gwanda on Friday last week at around 8PM near Cinderella B Mine and fled from the scene. Muzamba was referred to Gwanda Provincial Hospital where he died on Sunday while admitted. Nkomo, who had been reported missing, was found hanging from a tree on Tuesday at around 9AM near the accident scene. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the incident and said investigations were underway. “We are investigating a case where a police officer was fatally hit by a vehicle whose driver was later found hanging from a tree in a suspected suicide case, a few metres from where the accident occurred. “The police officer died at a local hospital where he had been admitted. “The taxi driver was travelling along Old Bulawayo-Gwanda Road and hit a police officer near Mtshabezi Cemetery and Cinderella B Mine and fled from the scene. “The police officer sustained serious injuries and was later assisted by a passerby who rushed him to Gwanda Provincial Hospital where he died two days later,” he said. Ass Comm Nyathi said Nkomo was reported missing by his relative on Sunday and he was later found on Tuesday by a villager hanging from a tree in a bushy area close to the accident scene. He said Nkomo’s body was in a decomposed state. Ass Comm Nyathi urged motorists to observe road regulations and desist from fleeing from accident scenes. “The Traffic Act makes it clear that when involved in an accident it the responsibility of the driver to stop and render assistance to anyone who has been injured and to inform the police. Unfortunately this wasn’t the case as this was a hit-and-run case. “The driver fled from the scene after committing the offence. “We urge motorists to take accountability for their actions in cases of accidents and to also observe all road regulations at all times and to help preserve life,” he said.—@DubeMatutu