The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THREE of the four newly-promoted Castle Premier Soccer League teams will play their home matches away from their bases after stadia in their locality were condemned by the Zifa’s First Instance Body (FIB). The FIB is responsbile for stadium inspections. Cash-rich Manica Diamonds of Mutare, Mushowani Stars from Bindura and Gweru-based TelOne must be gutted after their preferred home grounds were deemed unfit to host topflight matches. Only PSL returnees Hwange will enjoy home advantage after the Colliery Stadium passed the inspection. With the 2019 PSL kicking off on Friday, the FIB said: “The First Instance Body (FIB) has provisionally homologated the below listed stadiums to host the Premier Soccer League matches for the 2019 football season. The homologation is subject to other specific details being addressed at agreed specified timelines.” The nine facilities that have been given the green light are the National Sports Stadium and Rufaro in Harare, Bulawayo’s ceremonial home of football Barbourfields and Luveve, Mandava, the home of league champions FC Platinum, Gibbo in Triangle, Baobab Stadium in Mhondoro and Nyamhunga in Kariba. Manica Diamonds’ hopes of using Vhengere Stadium in Rusape while work is reportedly being done on Sakubva Stadium in Mutare hit a snag. Vhengere had always been a “nightmare” for visiting teams, which complained of the bumpy pitch and poor dressing rooms. Manica Diamonds begin their campaign with an away trip to Harare to face Caps United and will have to decide whether to opt for a facility in Harare or travel to Triangle for their second week home game against Harare City. Mushowani wanted to use Trojan Mine in Bindura, a facility that was home to former Premiership side Mwana Africa. Mushowani will be “home” to Dynamos at Rufaro Stadium in their season’s opener on Saturday. The other club affected by the decision not to certify stadia for the 2019 season is Chapungu. The Air Force of Zimbabwe club shares Ascot Stadium in Gweru with TelOne and the side will now play its home game at Mandava in Zvishavane. Meanwhile, the FIB is expected to submit a detailed stadium inspection report to the PSL and local authorities soon. An impeccable source said most facilities need to work on their dressing rooms and add showers, add doping rooms, have a press area and work on the pitch to be certified. Match Day 1 fixtures Friday: -Harare City v FC Platinum (Rufaro Stadium) Saturday: -Black Rhinos v Highlanders (National Sports Stadium) -Chicken Inn v ZPC Kariba (Luveve Stadium) -Mushowani Stars v Dynamos (Rufaro) -Chapungu v Bulawayo Chiefs (Mandava) Sunday: -Caps United v Manica Diamonds (National Sports Stadium) -Triangle United v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Gibbo Stadium) -Hwannge v Yadah (Colliery Stadium) -Herentals v TelOne (Rufaro). — @ZililoR.