The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter A 22-YEAR-OLD housemaid from Victoria Falls has been arrested for stealing 3 000 pula from her employer before fleeing to her home in Kwekwe. Tabeth Nyambira of House Number 100 Mahogany Road, Msasa Park in Kwekwe pleaded guilty to unlawful entry and theft when she appeared before Victoria Falls magistrate, Ms Rangarirai Gakanje. Nyambira was sentenced to six months in prison. She will, however, be spared the agony of jail life if she restitutes the money by March 29. This was after the magistrate suspended three months for five years on condition of good behaviour and the remaining three months on condition that she pays back the money. Prosecuting, Mr Onias Nyathi said Nyambira stole the money from her employer Ms Melinda Ngwenya of 4756 Chinotimba suburb. The money was hidden in a wardrobe. “On January 27, Nyambira entered Ms Ngwenya’s bedroom through a closed but unlocked door without her permission. While inside she took 3 000 pula which was in the wardrobe and after stealing the money, she travelled to Kwekwe where her parents reside,” said the prosecutor. Appearing before the same court was Nqobizitha Nkomazana (26) facing two counts of unlawful entry and the other two of theft. Nkomazana allegedly broke a window and entered Modern Takeaway in Victoria Falls on February 9. While inside he allegedly stole a 50 inch plasma TV, two Open View decoders, two remote controls and a microwave with a combined valued of $1 940. He allegedly took the stolen goods and put them in his barber shop in Mkhosana suburb. Police received a tip-off and raided the barber shop near Mukali Bar where some of the property valued at $1 820 was recovered. In the other incident, Nkomazana broke into Robins Motor Spares by breaking a door using an unknown object on February 22. He stole an HP laptop valued at $400. He confessed to stealing the laptop after his arrest. The laptop was recovered from Ms Judith Mupande to whom Nkomazana had sold the gadget. —@ncubeleon