The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter SOUTH Africa-based Warriors’ defender, Divine Lunga, defensive midfielder Danny Phiri and striker Knox Mutizwa are confident Zimbabwe will secure an Afcon ticket when they face Congo on Sunday. The three Lamontville Golden Arrows players in the South African Premiership flew into the country yesterday to join the Warriors’ camp. Zimbabwe need a draw at the National Sports Stadium to secure a place in the Afcon finals to be held in Egypt from June 15 to July 19. The Warriors sit at the top of an open Group G qualifying pool with eight points from five games. All teams in the group have a chance of qualifying for the continental showpiece as Liberia are in second place with seven points while DR Congo are third on six points and Congo anchor the table with five points. Phiri is making a return to the national team set-up after missing the Warriors’ 0-1 loss to Liberia in Monrovia last year. “It’s good to be part of the team for this important fixture. Every time I get a national team call-up, I feel honoured and I believe that’s how every player feels. Looking at Sunday’s game, we have a great chance of making it through and what we have to do is play our game, keep our cool and avoid putting ourselves under pressure. I think what can further spur us is the support we will get from the fans. It will be really nice to qualify and celebrate with our supporters at home,” said Phiri. Left-back Lunga, who has enjoyed great form since returning from injury, said he was ready to fight for a starting place with Bloemfontein Celtics,’ Ronald Pfumbidzai. “I missed being part of the national team and worked hard after injury to be at the top of my game so that I can be considered for the Warriors. I’m happy to be in camp and I know I’m not going to walk into the team because the guys that were playing while I was injured did well. I just have to compete and wait for my chance. What I know is that everyone wants to be part of the matchday squad and don the national team jersey. It’s going to be an interesting week as we compete for places. Above all, our duty is to make sure that the nation is happy by qualifying for Afcon, so whoever is selected on the day will certainly do the job,” said Lunga. Mutizwa said: “All we want is to qualify in style by winning at home. A draw is okay because it will take us through, but we will be happier if we win. We’ve been talking about this game as players and what I can tell you is that the guys are focused. The good thing is that almost everyone called-up has been doing well at club level.” From the 28-member squad called up for camp by coach, Sunday Chidzambwa, Belgium-based midfielder Marvellous Nakamba has been ruled out of the tie through injury. Skipper, Knowledge Musona, who is also based in Belgium will have to pass a fitness test to lead his Warriors after being given a week off by his club to recover. Warriors squad Goalkeepers: George Chigova (Polokwane City, South Africa), Edmore Sibanda (Witbank Spurs, South Africa), Petros Mhari (FC Platinum) Defenders: Divine Lunga (Lamontville Golden Arrows, South Africa), Marshall Munetsi (Orlando Pirates, South Africa), Teenage Hadebe (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa), Alec Mudimu (CEFN Druids, Wales), Tendayi Darikwa (Nottingham Forest, England), Jimmy Dzingai (Power Dynamos, Zambia), Ronald Pfumbidzai (Bloemfontein Celtic, South Africa), Godknows Murwira (FC Platinum) Midfielders: Tafadzwa Kutinyu (Azam, Tanzania), Richard Hachiro (Herentals), Marvelous Nakamba (Club Brugge KV, Belgium), Kudakwashe Mahachi (Orlando Pirates, South Africa), Leeroy Mavunga (Yadah Stars), Knowledge Musona (KSC Lokeren Oost-Vlaanderen, Belgium), Ovidy Karuru, Butholezwe Ncube and Talent Chawapihwa (all Amazulu, South Africa), Kelvin Lunga (SV Rodinghausen, Germany), Khama Billiat (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa), Danny Phiri (Lamontville Golden Arrows, South Africa) Strikers: Tinotenda Kadewere (Le Havre AC, France), Evans Rusike (SuperSport United, South Africa), Admiral Muskwe (Leicester City, England), Knox Mutizwa (Golden Arrows), Abbas Amidu (Arar, Saudi Arabia). — @ZililoR.