The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter THE Meet the People rally that was to be addressed by President Mnangagwa in Lupane, Matabeleland North tomorrow has been postponed. Zanu-PF Matabeleland North Provincial Secretary for Administration Cde Douglas Khoza said a new date will be confirmed in due course. “The visit by His Excellency President Mnangagwa has been postponed because he is busy with other programmes. This also has given us time to mobilise resources for the much anticipated event and we will most likely get confirmation of a new date next week,” said Cde Khoza. He, however, said the province is always ready to receive the President. President Mnangagwa is meeting party members in the provinces to thank them for voting for him and the party’s candidates in last year’s harmonised elections that ushered in the Second Republic. The rallies are also a platform for President Mnangagwa to outline Government’s programmes and for the party to send a clear message to detractors that President Mnangagwa’s support base is strong. Meanwhile, the party’s Matabeleland North Youth League will tomorrow hold an inter-district meeting at the Lupane provincial offices. The meeting is aimed at preparing for the Presidential Solidarity March and rally set to be held in Harare at a later date. The march and rally to be addressed by President Mnangagwa was postponed recently following the death of national hero, Cde Callistus Ndlovu. Provinces have been told to mobilise and sensitise members in their respective areas before the main event. Chairman for the Youth League in Matabeleland North Cde Tamuka Nyoni said they have set the ball rolling. “We as executive have started sensitisation meetings around constituencies where we are meeting and mobilising members. We have done Lupane East and the two Nkayi constituencies. On Friday (today) we will have an executive meeting in Lupane ahead of an inter-district on Saturday. “The inter-district is meant to mobilise membership for the Solidarity March and Rally. We’ve been told to do preparatory events province by province to mobilise youth members before the main Solidarity March hence the current programme where we are moving around constituencies,” said Cde Nyoni. District chairpersons will attend the Saturday meeting. The solidarity march is meant to defend President Mnangagwa’s leadership and send a message to opposition parties and the outside world that he is the country’s sole legitimate leader. It will be held under the theme #EDwillNeverWalkAlone. — @ncubeleon