The Chronicle Daniel Nemukuyu, Harare Bureau PRESIDENT Mnangagwa yesterday described the late national hero Brigadier General Emilio Munemo as a great teacher who educated people on politics, revolution, and the Zanu-PF ideology. Brig Gen Munemo passed away on Sunday after a short illness at the age of 64. He will be buried tomorrow at the National Heroes’ Acre. Addressing mourners at the Munemo family home in Harare, President Mnangagwa said the nation had lost a fountain of knowledge whose educational legacy was traceable to the liberation struggle. “Cde Munemo left behind a legacy of education. He was a talented teacher who taught politics, history of the country and the ideology of the ruling party. “He was a great teacher, very humble but rich in mind. He appeared simple but the moment he stood up to give a lecture, the audience would then realise his talent. He was a fountain of knowledge and his teaching prowess will always be remembered,” said President Mnangagwa. The President said hard work and loyalty took the nationalist up the ladder in the military ranks. “Cde Munemo was a dedicated and hardworking cadre. He was so respectful and loyal to the leadership. That is why he rose through the ranks, after joining the army as a Lieutenant Colonel,” he said. Cde Munemo was one of the founders of Zanu-PF’s Chitepo School of Ideology, which teaches people on the ideology of the party. The President said when the party leadership resolved to form the Chitepo School, Cde Munemo’s name was quickly suggested as a great teacher who had the capacity to impart knowledge on the party members. “When I, and the former President mooted the idea of establishing Chitepo School, we identified the names of those who had deep knowledge of the party ideology and history. “Cde Munemo’s name was among the first names to be suggested. We felt being a mere card-carrying member without knowledge of the party ideology was not sufficient. We identified great teachers who imparted the relevant knowledge to others,” he said. The President said the Politburo unanimously declared him a national hero within a few minutes of the discussion. “When the Politburo sat to deliberate on Cde Munemo’s hero status, a unanimous decision was made within two minutes. We all agreed to confer him with the hero status. “Your good works will always follow you,” he said. Vice President Constantino Chiwenga, on behalf of those who worked with Cde Munemo in the army, friends and relatives, thanked the President for according the selfless liberator, national hero status. “We want to thank our President for honouring us by declaring our colleague a national hero. He will now be laid to rest together with the rest of other fallen heroes. “We feel honoured,” said VP Chiwenga. VP Chiwenga said Cde Munemo worked in the Commissariat section during the liberation war before joining the Zimbabwe National Army at independence. He rose through the ranks to become director Civil-Military Relations. Brig-Gen joined the liberation struggle in 1977 through Gaza Province. He stayed at Xai-Xai with schoolchildren who had absconded to join the liberation struggle in the same year and left with them for Chimoio/Gondola Camp in Manica Province. They found the camp bombed and later left for Tembwe/Chindunduma Camp in 1978 for training with the same schoolchildren. They completed training in 1979 and were returned to Chindunduma In the same year, Brig-Gen Munemo was deployed to the Liberated Zones to open schools for children. He operated in Chivi, particularly Berejena area, until Independence in 1980. At Independence, he joined the Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) Education as a co-director until he went for training. In 1981, he was attested into the ZNA after training as a Lieutenant-Colonel. He rose through the ranks to the position of Brigadier- General in 2010, a position he held until the time of his death. During the time he was with ZNA, he served in the Infantry, Department of Public Relations as well as the Staff College as a Director. At the time of his death, he was Director of the Civil Military Relations, which department also dealt with the Chitepo Ideological School. Brig-Gen Munemo is survived by nine children and seven grandchildren.