The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
FIRST Division clubs that owe Zifa Southern Region substantial amounts will not be allowed to participate in the league when it commences at the end of this month. Eight clubs reportedly owe the region about $15 000 in affiliation, player registration and referees’ fees from 2018. Zifa Southern Region chairman Andrew Tapela said his league, which desires to attract sponsors, will protect its integrity by shutting out debtors. “In my acceptance speech in October (last year), I promised that the board will endeavour to bring sponsorship on board so that our teams have something to play for. “I therefore call upon all clubs to display a high sense of professionalism in their conduct so as to give enough mileage to our would be sponsors and partners,” said Tapela. “A number of clubs still have outstanding debts in affiliation fees, player registration and referees’ fees. However, it is also important to realise that for our league to be credible and worth attracting sponsorship, its members have to be reasonably funded so that sponsors are able to get mileage. “With the view of protecting the integrity of the league, all those clubs that owe last season’s payments and dues will not be allowed to participate in the league until those arrears are paid,” said Tapela. Affiliation fees for newly promoted clubs are pegged at $2 500, while old teams, including those that were relegated from the Premiership, pay $2 000. This excludes players and technical team registration fees. The registration for each player is $20, meaning $500 for a squad of 25 players and $250 for five technical team members. Tapela took time to welcome four teams that were promoted into the First Division, Ajax Hotspurs and Arenel Movers from Bulawayo as well as Nengasha Stars and Binga Pirates from Zifa Matabeleland North Division Two. “Their promotion is testimony that they all did extremely well in their respective leagues. I say congratulations to them, welcome to rumble in the jungle. I hope and trust that you’ll withstand the heat. “I’ve no doubt in my mind that indeed we are going to witness an exciting football season as we also welcome Bulawayo City to the league,” Tapela said.
Fourteen teams will compete in the league which kicks off on March 30. — @ZililoR