The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter AT least 185 football supporters will accompany the Warriors to Egypt in the event that Zimbabwe qualifies for the 2019 edition of the Total Africa Cup of Nations. The continental showpiece will be held in Egypt from June 15 to July 19. Zimbabwe takes on Congo in the final Afcon qualifier at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow, needing a draw to book their ticket to Egypt. The Warriors top Group G, which is an open pool, with eight points from five games. All the teams in the group have a chance of qualifying for Afcon finals. Liberia who take on Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) are second on the table with seven points while their opponents are on six points. Congo anchor the group on five points. The ZNSSA has already started approaching corporates with a view to get them on board to fund the supporters. Holiday Inn became their official partner, announcing that they will be giving discounts to supporters who will be coming for any national team games. The ZNSSA Bulawayo wing chairman Carlmarx Nkomo said they have started the process of coming up with a register for fans. He also thanked the corporates that have backed ZNSSA as well as the Warriors. “On Thursday our national team received a timely boost as they got trendy suits from one of Harare’s clothing shops, 4May. The technical team also got a courtesy vehicle, a Toyota Prado, from Owy Auto Clinic owned by Harare businessman, Owen Dube, to use during their preparations. We also got assistance for the trip to Harare from LG Foods owned by Lawrence Gwati in Bulawayo and as Zimbabweans we have to celebrate and thank businesses and people who support the national cause. “We are travelling for the game and we’ve been calling supporters in Bulawayo to register with the association. Everything will be done transparently with the new ZNSSA keen on giving supporters from every part of the country an opportunity to travel with the national teams,” said Nkomo. To encourage fans to travel for the crunch Warriors tie, ZNSSA Bulawayo wing gave away 40 T-shirts to fans that will pay for transport the body has availed for the trip. “We’ve organised adequate transport operated by drivers of sober habits. For the return trip from Bulawayo to Harare as well as a ticket for the rest of the ground, we have set the price at $70. Those interested to go and rally behind our national team can either contact me on 0773267040 or our secretary-general on 0773383703,” said Nkomo. — @ZililoR