The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter THE flagship pecan nut project in Matabeleland North province is well on course with the Agricultural and Rural Development Authority (Arda) targeting to have 20 000 pecan trees by June this year. The pecan tree is cultivated for its nut seed, which is rich in vitamins and minerals such as manganese, potassium, calcium, iron, magnesium, zinc and selenium and contains antioxidants that help reduce the risk of heart disease. Arda is spearheading the growing of the pecan nut together with other cash crops countrywide. Arda board chair, Mr Basil Nyabadza, told delegates during the recent Matabeleland North devolution conference in Lupane that 10 000 pecan nut trees had been planted at Arda Balu in Umguza District. He said 10 000 more would have been planted by June this year. “In this province we are planting pecan nuts at Arda Balu in Umguza. We’ve planted 10 000 trees and we’ve now cleared more land to plant 10 000 more by June. This province will be the best producer of pecans in Africa. We did our research and there is value as the nuts cost $37 per kilogramme,” said Mr Nyabadza. He said the planted trees were doing well so far and challenged communities to do water harvesting in their areas. Mr Nyabadza said a full range of cropping can be done in any part of the country, the dry Matabeleland North province included, as long as people embrace water management methods. “Education and technology teaches us that we can find value anywhere in the country as long as we use resources wisely,” he said. Pecan nuts have a high export value. The tree is not really new to the country as it has been grown in some areas although a majority of ordinary citizens had no knowledge of it. The tree can take five years to grow and start bearing fruits but when it does, it can take up to 100 years, according to Mr Nyabadza. Anybody with a piece of land and access to water can grow pecan trees, which are well adapted to subtropical regions and grow well in areas with short, cold winters and long, very hot summers. Experts say low temperatures and even frost during June to August are required for successful budding and flower formation. During the summer months (October to April) the tree requires high temperatures for fruit growth. Trees are successfully established in valleys and along rivers where the winter temperature is low and frost occurs. Mr Jim Ross Goddard, a renowned businessman in Shangani area of Insiza District in Matabeleland South, is one of the few farmers that have ventured into pecan nuts growing. – @ncubeleon