The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Commander Zimbabwe National Army Challenge match between Bulawayo giants Highlanders and Chicken Inn, which was scheduled for Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday, has been cancelled. The clash, aimed at fundraising for the construction of a secondary school in Mbalabala, Matabeleland South province, has since been replaced by a competitive friendly match between the two sides at Barbourfields. In a statement, director of army public relations Lieutenant Colonel Alphios Makotore said: “The Commander Zimbabwe National Army Challenge Soccer Match which had been organised between Highlanders FC and Chicken Inn FC, and pencilled for Sunday 10 March 2019 at Barbourfields Stadium in Bulawayo has been cancelled. “The cancellation is due to reasons beyond the organisation’s control and inconveniences caused to the football fraternity are sincerely regretted.You will be duly informed of any future arrangements regarding the ZNA fundraising endeavours.” The match between Bosso and Chicken Inn was one of the many fundraising programmes for ZNA charities. Highlanders, whose players have been on strike demanding January and February salaries, said they are waiting for the PSL to grant them permission to hold their first friendly match of the season. Bosso have so far played two training games against Green Fuel, a First Division side from the Eastern Region, and two matches against Beitbridge select sides. “We’re converting the game against Chicken Inn into a competitive friendly match. We’ve both agreed to a competitive friendly and we’ve since written to the PSL seeking permission to have the game,” said Nhlanhla Dube, Highlanders’ chief executive officer. Dube revealed that Bosso 90, which has been training under the guidance of head coach Madinda Ndlovu alongside some first team players, have been invited to play against Filabusi United in Filabusi tomorrow. The number of senior team players that have now returned to training increased to nine on Wednesday. The quartet of goalkeeper Wellington Muuya, defenders Bukhosi Ncube and Charlton Siamalonga as well as winger Cleopas Kapupurika joined striker Prince Dube, midfielder Mbekezeli Sibanda, national Under-20 captain Andrew Mbeba, central defender Vincent Moyo and striker Russell Chifura at training. – @ZililoR.