The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter NINE Zimbabwean players have qualified for the second round of the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Under-18 tournament being held at Bulawayo Country Club. The tournament is also being contested by players from Italy, Spain, Poland, Russia, United States of America, Egypt, Botswana, Hong Kong, Namibia and South Africa, among others, to earn world ranking points. Second round matches will be played today. Emakhandeni Tennis Club’s 15-year-old wonder kid Zamani Moyo proceeded to the second round after beating Italian Luca Fe D’ostiani 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. Moyo’s win will see him locking horns with South African Tatenda Mutetwa, who overcame Zimbabwe’s Hesley Masara 6-1, 6-2. “I’m happy with the opportunity to compete with players from other countries and my target is to reach the quarter-finals. When I played against Luca, I was scared, but my secret weapon is to fight with everything. I told myself that I’ve nothing to lose and now I’m looking forward to my next match. I watched my next opponent playing and I’m hoping things will turn out well for me. I’m going out there to give my best,” said Moyo. Zimbabwe’s top seeded player in the boys’ category, Thabo Ncube, set a date with Silas Charama from Botswana after thumping Willem Wimpie from South Africa 7-5, 6-0. Wimpie said: “I’m learning a lot in this event and it is my first time coming to Zimbabwe. As much as I’m disappointed that I lost my first match, I’m also grateful for the experience I got here.” Hannah Shen from Hong Kong, who beat Zimbabwe’s Kimberly Hore, thanked her father for accompanying her to the tournament. “My dream is to one day go and play in the United States and I believe that if I keep on attending such tournaments, I will achieve my dream,” said Shen. Russia’s Sofiya Lobedeva was beaming with delight after beating the hosts’ Takudzwa Mawisire 6-4, 6-2. “I’ve only played one match and I’m hoping to play well in the next round and see how it goes. I have challenges with the heat, but I want to give my best,” said Lobedeva. – @DecoDecent2