The Chronicle Mehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter
IN a bid to grow the game at junior level, Carmel School in Bulawayo is holding its inaugural Big Bash T10 Cricket, an Under-13 tournament, at the Old Mutual Heath Streak Academy tomorrow. Six teams, Whitestone B, Tuskers Under-13, St Thomas, REPS, Masiyephambili and Carmel will take part in the first edition of the tournament. Carmel sports administrator Thamsanqa Moyo said they have divided the six teams into two groups of three with all of them guaranteed to play at least three games on the day. All the teams will play two group matches with those at the bottom of their respective pools to head into a fifth place play-off, while those at the top will clash in the final. The winners will be presented with a trophy and there will also be individual awards for standout performers on the day. Wholesale Beef are the main sponsors of the Carmel Big Bash T10 tournament. Carmel headmaster Crispin Eley said the idea of having the T10 tournament was a way of growing cricket at an early age and to promote the shorter version of the game. “We are holding the Carmel T10 Cricket Bash to encourage cricket at grassroots level; to encourage the shorter form of the game, which is so popular on television and in the media and it is to encourage participation from parents and to give the Bulawayo public something exciting to watch,” Eley said. He promised the spectators some entertaining cricket and with the weather conducive, it certainly looks like a fine day for the youngsters to flourish. “The fans can look forward to some untapped talent. The weather promises to be fine with no rain and we just expect people to turn out to support cricket. Our dream is to have it as an annual event, to have it bigger and better and to have it under floodlights,” said Eley. He expressed gratitude to Wholesale Beef for sponsoring the event. “Wholesale Beef have decided to sponsor the whole tournament. We are very grateful to him (Wholesale Beef managing director Dale Saudan) and his company for what they have done.” -— @Mdawini_29