The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter
HUMOROUS award-winning stand-up comedian Clive Chigubhu, who has been missing in action, says his career is not dead as he had just taken time out to rebrand himself. “As artists, it’s very important that we go back to the drawing board and ask ourselves where we want to take our careers and carefully plan how we can make money from what we do. This is what I’ve been doing behind the scenes,” said Chigubhu. Since the birth of his daughter Cherise Makhosazana three years ago, the comedian has not been performing at public events like Intwasa and other comedy shows as he has been focusing on his family and private and corporate events. “At the beginning of 2017, I left the main stage to concentrate on private events as all my focus was on my daughter,” explained Chigubhu. But, all this is about to change as his fans who have been starved of his entertainment will now start seeing him more frequently. The comedian has two major projects this year including an online TV show that he will launch by the end of this month as well as a long-awaited one-man show. “This upcoming online show is a news satire show called Bulawayo Broadcasting at Chambers (BBC) with Clive Chigubhu. The show will satirise current affairs (political and social issues) through sketch comedy and it’ll premiere this month-end on my Facebook page and YouTube channel,” he said. Chigubhu said they have begun casting comic actors for the show with female standup comedian Nomsa D (Lady D) set to be part of the show. On the one-man show, Chigubhu said: “This show will explore various themes of things that are taking place in the country at the moment.” Through the one-man show, he said he wants to raise the bar of creativity. “Artists are messengers of society. We (artists) listen to the society’s needs and reflect them in our own different creative ways and with this one-man show, I’ll be reflecting the societal issues in a comical way.” He said the one-man show would be theatrical as it will have a stage design and sound effects. While a date and venue have not been set for the show, Chigubhu said he was eyeing April and the Bulawayo Theatre. “This will be a great year for me. I’ve done my research and crafted my plans and Clive Chigubhu is back.” Creating comedy out of daily township life and hardships, personal experiences and somewhat poking fun at himself, Chigubhu has extensive abilities in acting and emceeing that have seen him getting involved in a number of major plays and films in Bulawayo. Outside Zimbabwe, he has performed at some of South Africa’s finest comedy venues like the Packers Gold Reef City, Packers Monte Casino and the Box Goliath. It is hoped that with his return, he will continue putting Bulawayo comedy on the map by performing at various venues.