The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Vic Falls OPERATORS in the tourism industry have awarded workers a 55 percent cost of living adjustment (Cola) to cushion employees in the wake of rising prices of basics. The adjustment, which is based on the currency of reference, the Real Transfer Gross Settlement (RTGS), is with effect from 1 March 2019 and will be in place for four months until June 30 when it will be reviewed. The Employers’ Association for Tourism and Safari Operators (EATSO) and representatives of workers had since the start of the year been engaged in collective bargaining negotiations. Last year, the tourism industry employers awarded workers a five percent basic salary increment, which saw the lowest paid employee earning $128 per month excluding allowances. This year workers wanted to be paid in United States dollars or an increment of basic salary. However, the two parties finally agreed to put aside any salary increase and give 55 percent Cola across all grades. The allowance covers three sectors namely leisure, hunting and conservation while the other sectors including national parks, agriculture and forestry are yet to conclude talks. EATSO president, Mr Clement Mukwasi, said the allowance was meant to cushion workers in light of rising cost of living. “We have introduced a 55 percent cost of living adjustment across board for four months. The decision was arrived at after realisation that Government is undertaking measures to rebuild the economy, which we believe will have stabilised in June. “The idea was then to halt any salary increase and award workers a cost of living allowance to cushion against rising prices pending the direction the economy will take after June,” said Mr Mukwasi. He said the allowance would be reviewed after four months where it will likely be removed or sustained depending on performance of the economy. The tourism industry is sector based and the bargaining process is also done separately. Mr Mukwasi said smaller operators might feel the pinch as a result of the 55 percent adjustment but said the pain will last for four months only. Bigger operators will not be affected much because their clientele is predominantly international. Some operators in Victoria Falls already are paying workers in United States dollars. Over the years the negotiations have been protracted as parties failed to agree on a number of issues. There are various trade unions representing the tourism sector workers. — @ncubeleon.