The Chronicle Sharon Buwerimwe, Chronicle Reporter DOMINICAN Convent High School is this year’s winner of the Bulawayo public speaking competition. The event was hosted on Friday at Bulawayo Theatre by the Rotary Club of Bulawayo South and featured 10 schools. A total of 34 schools participated in the first rounds of the competition and 10 made it to the finals. Nokubonga Majenda, an upper six student at Dominican Convent High School, shrugged of stiff competition from nine other pupils beating Tamia Melissa Ncube from Mtshabezi High school and Thabiso Beauty Pahla from Denmark Training service into second and third place. Her winning speech was entitled “Home alone”, while Mtshabezi’s speech was entitled “Colour affects the way people feel” and Denmark Training Services: “If your dreams aren’t big enough”. Nokubonga walked away with a shield, $200 and a $100 voucher from Edgars. Schools that took part in the final were Usher, St Columba’s, Cyrene, Mpopoma, Entumbane High Schools, Christian Brothers and Herentals Colleges. Nokubonga, after the event, said high level competition from other contestants spurred her to greater heights. “The competition was stiff as there were brilliant speeches that were presented by other contestants but I managed to win,” she said with tears of joy. President of the Rotary Club Bulawayo South District 9210 Mr Everson Ndlovu said the competition was organised to promote communication skills and build confidence. “We want to build confidence and leadership skills in our students. We want to make this event the talk of town so that pupils benefit from participating in such events,” he said.
Mr Ndlovu said being a Rotarian was pursuing service before self and they wanted to instil that into the young generation. “I was impressed by the use of language and anecdotes in the speeches. This shows that the contestants prepared well for the competition,” he said. Mr Ndlovu encouraged schools to groom pupils o be leaders of tomorrow through interaction clubs. @sharonbuwe