The Chronicle Harare Bureau A HARARE man yesterday morning shot and killed his wife and brother-in-law at their Gletwin home following a prolonged marital dispute. The man, Petros Pomborokani (50), a former Ministry of Health and Child Care employee, has since gone into hiding. He used a CZ pistol to shoot his wife Olivia Zenda (42) and brother-in-law Robert Zenda (49) in front of his three children, mother-in-law, a relative and a housemaid at around 7am. The couple had been married for 20 years and has four children aged 19, 12, 10 and eight. Police recovered two loaded magazines of the pistol at the scene. Investigations are underway. The matter is being handled by CID Homicide. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the shooting. “Investigations carried out so far have revealed that the suspect and his wife had a long marital dispute. He was in the habit of assaulting his wife and had since moved out of their matrimonial home,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi said at around 7am, Pomborokani was seen by a relative entering the house while wearing a hood. “A few minutes later, the relative heard the wife screaming calling for help before gunshots were fired. It is suspected that he first shot the wife before turning the gun on his brother-in-law. He fled the scene,” said Asst Comm Nyathi. A report was made to the police. Asst Comm Nyathi urged couples to solve disputes amicably and desist from taking the law into their own hands. “We are however still carrying out investigations to ascertain the origins of the pistol with a view to establish whether it was licensed or not. We also want to establish whether it belonged to the suspect or not,” he said. Investigations carried out by our Harare Bureau have revealed that Pomborokani was once arrested in 2016 after he kidnapped gospel singer, Mathias Mhere. He accused Mhere of having an extra marital affair with his wife. Pomborokani forced his wife to phone Mhere. The wife invited Mhere to the couple’s house. Pomborokani pointed a firearm at Mhere when he arrived at the couple’s house. He allegedly forced Mhere and his wife to remove their clothes and held them hostage naked for five hours. Pomborokani was arrested and appeared before a Harare Magistrate who convicted him. He was fined US$150 or three months in prison. Pomborokani also had two other cases of physical abuse that were reported against him by his wife at Highlands Police Station. The cases were however withdrawn by the wife. He also has another pending case of attempted murder reported by his wife at Highlands Police Station. Pomborokani has been moving around in a South African registered vehicle.