The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE Premier Soccer League shall soon be operating from the Zifa Village situated in Mount Hampden, Harare after Zifa resolved to lease the spacious facility to their biggest affiliate. This was revealed by the Zifa supremo Felton Kamambo during an interview with Classic 263’s Valentine Mabhungu on the programme The Grill recently where the Zifa boss also touched on a number of issues including events leading to the suspension of his deputy Gift Banda on January 15 this year. “The Zifa Village is operational, our plan is we want to allocate it to the Premier Soccer League so that they operate from there. This will greatly reduce their cost in terms of office rentals and so forth,” said Kamambo. The PSL presently rents offices in Eastlea, Harare. Kamambo also said PSL clubs would be in a position to use accommodation facilities at the Village which will go a long way in reducing their accommodation costs since rates would be heavily subsidised. “We also want the PSL clubs to actually camp at the Zifa Village so that they can reduce their camping costs because rates there are way below and better than most if not all accommodation facilities in the capital but its up to the clubs if they want to camp there or not,” he said. On the issue of Banda’s suspension, the Zifa president said his second in charge, who shocked all and sundry by unilaterally reshuffling national team coaches, violated the Zifa constitution which they had promised to adhere to during their campaign trail. “Though not really eager to comment on that but when we were campaigning we said we need to adhere to the constitution and it doesn’t mean that if you don’t adhere, even within three days, we won’t take action. Whenever we see someone disowning the constitution which is supposed to guide us we then take the necessary action. “The Zifa vice president was not suspended by Felton Kamambo but by the board, we are still prepared to work with him if he is cleared because the decision to suspend him was never personal,” said Kamambo. According to Article 34 (k) of the Zifa constitution on the powers of the executive, it is the duty of the whole executive committee to appoint coaches for the representative teams and other technical staff members.