The Chronicle Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau ALL is set for the commissioning of TelOne’s multi-million-dollar fibre optic link in Beitbridge where President Mnangagwa is expected to officiate today. The link, which connects Beitbridge with Bulawayo, Harare, Masvingo and the rest of the country, was constructed by TelOne in partnership with China Exim Bank as part of the expansion of the national broadband network and enhancing efficient communication countrywide. The investment will make Zimbabwe an Information Communication Technology (ICT) hub for Southern Africa. Matabeleland South Provincial Administrator Mrs Sithandiwe Ncube said yesterday that the stage had been set for the President’s visit. “We are ready to roll. The stage has been set and we have mobilised enough resources to make this event a great success. “All stakeholders are putting final touches to the venue in line with their respective responsibilities,” she said. By end of day yesterday, workers from different government departments were still at the venue putting final touches ahead of today’s event. The coming in of the fibre optic link is expected to reduce operating costs for the network provider (TelOne) by 40 percent as well as cascade some benefits to consumers. The Chronicle understands that at the moment, TelOne is receiving traffic direct from Mozambique which then links with Mutare, Harare and Bulawayo. The new initiative will connect traffic direct from South Africa through Beitbridge, Bulawayo, Masvingo and Harare to bring the much needed reliable and high speed services to Zimbabwe at affordable prices. Fibre links are like major roads where other centres connect through and branch off. The coming in of the new communication link is also expected to enhance the expansion of TelOne’s network in Beitbridge town and enhance Government’s thrust to roll out e-services for its departments and Ministries. It will also ensure connectivity between the country’s border towns as well as enhance e-Government, which is being implemented at various levels.