The Chronicle Fungai Muderere in Blantyre, Malawi
Be Forward Wandereres 1 – 0 Chicken Inn
AFTER grinding a 1-0 triumph over Zimbabwe’s Chicken Inn in the Nyasa Big Four Bonanza, Be Forward Wanderers technical manager, Steve Madeira, reckoned that Gamecocks’ new signing, Clive Augusto, among other veteran players, have dribbled into his heart. Madeira, whose charges got the solitary goal from the boot of enterprising left winger Mike Kaziputa in the first minute of the second half beating substitute goalkeeper Pride Zendera at Kamuzu Stadium, said he was happy that they played against an organised side with many talented players. “I’m naturally excited but the result does not matter. Our opponents are a good team with a good tactical approach. Their number 21 (Clive Augusto), number 88 (Guide Goddard), number 7 (George Majika) and number 20 (Passmore Bernard) are very good players,” said Madeira. His opposite number, Joey Antipas, whose charges took turns to waste glorious opportunities with chief culprits being Augusto, Marlvin Gaki, Obrey Chirinda, Sipho Ndlovu and young Nicole Mutatiwa, refused to acknowledge that the high temperatures could have negatively impacted on them. “We usually experience this kind of hot weather in Zimbabwe, maybe we were only affected by the artificial turf. I’m happy that we created a lot of opportunities even though we failed to score. In a game of football, if you fail to bury your chances you get punished. We played a good and exciting game against an equally good side,” said Antipas. The former Motor Action and Warriors gaffer, who used six substitutes in yesterday’s match, is expected to give players that include Panashe Mutasa, Obidiah Tarumbwa, Phakamani Dube and Ben Nyawunzwi starting places in this afternoon’s tie against Nyasa Big Bullets who enjoy massive support in the commercial capital of Malawi. Before the much anticipated clash between the 2015 Zimbabwe champions and Nyasa Big Bullets, Be Forward Wanderers will take on Ferroviário de Nampula from Mozambique at 12.30PM. The Gamecocks and Bullets’ clash promises a tactical shrewdness battle between Antipas and his fellow countrymen, Callisto Pasuwa, the former Dynamos and Warriors mentor. The last time Chicken Inn went for a pre-season camp outside the country was in 2016 when they were invited to a four-team tournament in Zambia. Then, Chicken Inn were preparing for their maiden Caf Champions League appearance. In the Zambian tournament, the Gamecocks played against Azam of Tanzania and Zambian giants Zesco United and Zanaco. Last year, they played against Zanaco and Nkana Red Devils of Zambia as part of their pre-season preparations at Luveve Stadium.