The Chronicle Walter Mswazie, Business Correspondent A TOTAL of 90 women in Masvingo have undergone a week-long intensive training in financial literacy and project proposal as part of inculcating a culture of entrepreneurship among them. The training programme was facilitated by Homelink, in collaboration with Great Zimbabwe University and a non-profit making organisation, Women Entrepreneurship Day (WED). In an interview on the sidelines of presentation of certificates to participants after successfully completing the training programme at a local lodge in Masvingo on Friday, Homelink marketing manager Ms Tendai Rafemoyo said the training, which also imparted taxation skills was meant to empower women in business and those willing to start businesses. “We are working in conjunction with the Great Zimbabwe University and WED to train women in financial literacy, project proposal and financial inclusion. “We have trained 90 women, all from Masvingo,” she said. Ms Rafemoyo said the women were equipped with hands-on skills she wished would be implementing for the trainees’ economic empowerment. “We have also done similar trainings in Gwanda and Harare. “Our aim is to cover all the ten provinces in the country. We seek to empower women, as you know if you educate a woman you would have educated the nation. “We have equipped them with relevant business skills and now they know how to come up with bankable business proposals. “We also took them through loan application and how to pay back loans, company documentation as well as basic taxation issues,” she said. Ms Rafemoyo said those trained would be assisted by WED, to come up with bankable business proposals which Homelink will be prepared to assist with funding. She bemoaned lack of confidence by most women when it came to applying for business loans even though their enterprises are bankable. Ms Rafemoyo said most women could not take business risks yet risk-taking was the name of the game. One of the participants who is also into farming, Ms Chipo Mawanza hailed the training programme saying she had acquired relevant skills for her business and would ensure that it remained profitable. “I am happy to get this rare opportunity to receive valuable training. I have learnt that a business is a separate entity and we must not mix it with family needs. “I have also learnt that in my business I should have a salary and treat myself as an employee. “We thank Homelink and the facilitators of the training, GZU together with WED. “I am no longer the same after the training programme,” said Ms Mawanza. WED ambassador, Ms Angeline Mikiri said her organisation was working with a number of women in business in and around Masvingo. She said WED’s main thrust was to empower women through partaking in entrepreneurship. “We target all women and engage them in a number of empowerment projects. “We have some of our members who are already into business like biogas, poultry, piggery and even ranching. “We strive to contribute to the country’s Gross Domestic Product, in support of the Government’s devolution mantra especially in Masvingo,” said Ms Mikiri. -@walterbmswazie2