The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter INVOLVEMENT of diaspora professionals is strategic and key to the successful implementation of bilateral projects between Zimbabwe and its regional trading partners, the Diaspora Infrastructure Development Group (DIDG) has said. In a statement, DIDG strategic planning and implementation director Ms Fadzai Nyamasve said many Zimbabwean professionals in the diaspora occupy senior positions in different companies and could contribute meaningfully to the country’s business growth. “The diaspora is well positioned to support Zimbabwe and its regional trade partners like South Africa in implementing bi-lateral projects. “Many Zimbabwean diaspora professionals occupy senior positions in various technical companies, financial institutions and public enterprises that Government and private institutions want to do business with,” she said. “As such, we are the first point of call from multi-nationals and bi-lateral trade partners such as South Africa when they are considering investing in Zimbabwe.” Ms Nyamasve said the diaspora resource was a key advantage that could be exploited well to accelerate co-operation between Zimbabwe and its regional trade partners, particularly South Africa where there are a number Zimbabwean diaspora. In 2017, DIDG won a US$400 million tender to recapitalise and operate NRZ together with Transnet of South Africa. DIDG is headquartered in South Africa and run by a team of Zimbabwean professionals living in the major diaspora countries such as South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Namibia and Botswana. Through its diverse and rich diaspora skills, it has set itself up as an integrated engineering, construction, operations, manufacturing and industrial company focused on investing and developing the economic infrastructure of Zimbabwe such as rail, water, energy, air and roads. “DIDG’s strategic mission is to participate in the ownership of the key infrastructure management companies operating in the target sectors,” said Ms Nyamasve. “This enables us to take a long-term investment view when we invest and support the value chain industries, which in turn develop the local industrial economy. “Presently, DIDG is a co-shareholder in the new NRZ rail concession operator, it is strategically pursuing the resuscitation of local companies that previously provided critical services to NRZ. “We are in the process of acquiring or forming strategic partnerships with the likes of Fort Concrete, Zeco and other heavy engineering,