The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE video assistant referee (VAR) controversy that rocked the Uefa Champions League matches on Wednesday night which saw Portugal’s FC Porto and England’s Manchester United progressing to quarter-finals there has generated a lot of debate. The two teams advanced after VAR decisions enabled them to dispatch their opponents through last minute penalty kicks. FC Porto overturned a 1-2 first-leg defeat by AS Roma to win 3-1 and go through 4-3 on aggregate, while the Red Devils beat a poor PSG 3-1 to overturn a 0-2 first-leg loss. FC Porto got their spot kick at the end of the extra time period, while Manchester United’s penalty came right at the end of regulation time, and in both instances, match referees came to that decision after consulting VAR. Zimbabwean football fans, who religiously follow European football, had mixed views about VAR and below are some of the opinions they expressed on social media platform Facebook. Shady Dalolo Kutsanzira: “The VAR is not good for football, yes in sports like cricket and rugby or any other, but it has killed the spark and excitement in football. The delays in reviewing decisions made by referees kills the tempo and excitement. VAR is not good for football, this is not cricket.” Jimmy Dube: “It’s not good for football, how can you bring cricket into soccer. The referee can be biased at times; they don’t view football on 360 degrees, and at times some decisions just need logic. Now it means we no longer have a ball to hand situation because of VAR, taking away our soccer, stopping matches and destroying the rhythm of the game.” Rodrick Sibanda Mawaya: “VAR is the latest scandal in the world of football. It removes the entire thrill and excitement which is sometimes as a result of human error on the refereeing part. VAR computerises the game, and makes it a direct competitor of Play Station and not all of us get fascinated by Play Station. What then is in it for us in the VAR era? Nothing! With VAR, Arsenal would be on position three in the EPL, because that Tottenham penalty wouldn’t have been given as VAR would have called for offside before the foul. Without VAR, PSG would have sailed through to the Champions League quarters at the expense of Man U. VAR is a disaster.” Cde Nkosana Malinga Ndlovu: “VAR is not a problem; the problem is the human being because VAR can be used in any incident, but the final decision comes from a man, the referee. I am a Man U and Barca fan, but what happened yesterday was not a penalty at all. What happened to the ball to hand rule because that guy was not directly looking at the ball; the ball hit his arm whilst he was looking in the other direction which to me is a ball to hand and not a penalty at all, but the other problem is if there is lack of technology it becomes another problem like the 2010 World Cup Frank Lampard incident. In my conclusion I would say to a certain extent VAR has brought fairness and justice to the game.” Xolani Moyo: “It’s a good tool for football. Every system has its own flaws, the Lampard goal against Germany (in the 2010 World Cup) was a cause for concern and you could not fault the match officials. I am in support of it.” Mgcini Sibhalo Mpofu: “I think it’s a very good thing. There are times when some teams lose due to some referees that ignore some important decisions or purposely make wrong calls. VAR is only bad if you are the victim.” Nhlanhla Dube: “VAR is good for football because football action sometimes happens in a split second so it gives the ref a second chance to make an accurate and informed decision.” Mso Ndlovu: “In my view, VAR must be scrutinised from the following angles: 1. Excitement, suspense and thrill. In this regard, VAR has taken away the thrill associated with questions rival fans have after the game. In my view, the ugly human errors by referees are what make it the beautiful game. The imperfections of human errors are what makes it the game we so love. 2. VAR is designed to perfect the above imperfections. VAR is designed to effect the strict adherence to laid down football rules. If athletes and or teams participate in competitions whose rules are known and they have agreed to be bound by, VAR is the perfect tool to eliminate potential prejudice. The beauty of it is that while it takes away the excitement of human error, which we have become so accustomed to, thereby quickly condemning it now which is normal with human nature’s resistance to change, VAR is also bringing with it the excitement of reversal of decisions both ways. 3. VAR has the potential to reduce the scourge of throwing games. 4. Lastly, should the use of VAR become part of Fifa benchmarks because chances are that Fifa may enforce it on all member associations, which will mean that even leagues like the (local) Premier Soccer League will be required to cover their games live. In the final analysis, VAR is a good development to our football. There is no better way to illustrate this point than the PSG v Man U game. Man U deserved to progress and did so, thanks to VAR. Evans Vaskqo Ndlovu: “VAR is not a problem; the problem will always be refs even if there is video analysis, they still fail to give the correct call.” Francis Steyn Nakamu: “VAR is taking all the fun away from the beautiful game.” Fletcher Ndlovu: “I personally think VAR should be removed it is making football boring.” Bekithemba Bossomania Ntshangase: “VAR is not a problem. I think it has been introduced to improve fairness when it comes to officiating because there were a lot of errors by referees. “However, the referees who operate the VAR at times tend to over judge. For example, when Real Madrid (my favourite team) beat Ajax in the first leg, there was some controversial action by the officials operating VAR.”