The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
TEACHERS have urged the Public Service Commission (PSC) to allow dialogue with the Government to continue without imposing punitive measures on them. The PSC said 10 200 teachers would have their leave days deducted as punishment for embarking on an industrial action early this month. The teachers participated in a strike called by the Progressive Teachers’ Union of Zimbabwe (PTUZ) and the Zimbabwe Teachers’ Association (Zimta) early this month demanding a salary increment and better conditions of service. The two unions yesterday said the PSC was being too harsh on the civil servants. Zimta chief executive officer Mr Sifiso Ndlovu said there is a need to work towards industrial harmony. “The best way forward is not to use punitive measures but to continue engaging. While it is within the international law to use the principle of ‘no work no pay’, it’s inappropriate for it to be used in the Zimbabwean situation. We already have heightened emotions because of the economic hardships biting on the workers. It’s therefore important for us to continue engaging amicably and see how best we can motivate the workers,” said Mr Ndlovu. He said what the PSC was planning to do amounted to a charge which must follow proper procedures. “We acknowledge that the period we’re entering is a period of austerity, which is going to be harder than it was before. As the economic pains are manifesting themselves, it’s unfair for the Government to further punish the workers. Let’s not return fire with fire,” said Mr Ndlovu. He said teachers went on strike because dialogue with the Government was not producing results. PTUZ secretary general Mr Takavafira Zhou said it was unprocedural for the PSC to deduct leave days without summoning teachers for hearings. “The teachers were on a legal industrial action and a notice was served under the banner of the Apex Council on January 8, 2019. The PSC acknowledged receipt of that notice and we even have a letter that has a date stamp from the commission. “We gave the commission two weeks’ notice and it lapsed without the PSC doing anything to engage teachers. The commission therefore can’t find the teachers guilty before hearing them,” said Mr Zhou. He said under normal circumstances, the procedure was for the PSC to approach the Labour Court to assess the legality of the industrial action and declare the strike illegal before carrying out hearings for teachers who were on industrial action. “Without hearings, the pronouncement by the PSC is null and void. They can’t find teachers guilty without summoning them for a hearing,” said Mr Zhou. — @pamelashumba1.