The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Health Reporter THE Ministry of Health and Child Care has identified 27 districts in Zimbabwe with a high prevalence of global acute malnutrition (GAM) which affects about 170 000 children in the country. GAM is an indicator of the overall food and nutrition situation of a population. It”s measurement is crucial as the GAM increases the risk of illness and death, and children aged six to 59 months are particularly vulnerable according to nutrition experts. Nationally, the prevalence of GAM stands at 2,7 percent and of the 27 worst affected districts, only three recorded a 2,6 percentage. Binga is the worst affected district with 4,4 percent and the ministry said the district also faces chronic food insecurity requiring urgent action. “About 169 097 children aged between six and 59 months are affected by global acute malnutrition. “We have 27 districts in Zimbabwe whose global acute malnutrition prevalence is above the national average of 2,6 percent. Of the affected districts the top five include Binga, Kariba, Mangwe, Shamva and Mount Darwin,” read the statement. “Tsholotsho, Zvishavane, Guruve, Gokwe North, Beitbridge and Mhondoro-Ngezi are in the bottom six.” Other affected districts are Umguza, Muzarabani, Midzi, Makonde, Mbire, Mutoko, Mazoe, Rushinga, Inyanga, Chegutu, Makoni, Hurungwe, Kwekwe and Lupane. According to statistics from the Ministry, a total of 6 850 pregnant and lactating mothers are in dire need of food aid. In terms of provinces, Mashonaland East is the only province with a GAM above the 5 percent cut-off indicator which is supposed to trigger emergency response. The United Nations Zimbabwe Resident Co-ordinator, Mr Bishow Parajuli, said drought and the economic crisis are giving rise to an increase in malnutrition among children. “In responding to the rising humanitarian concern in Zimbabwe and scaling up of relief support, we will need free access and close cooperation from the various sections of the Government and funding support from donors,” said Mr Parajuli. Food insecurity in rural and urban areas has significantly increased countrywide with Matabeleland North and Matabeleland South provinces being the hardest hit. According to the Zimbabwe Vulnerability Assessment Committee (ZimVac) lean season monitoring report for January 2019, food insecurity prevalence increased in the country with rural households recording 51 percent up from 28 percent last year. “The food security prevalence is at 51 percent for rural households, an increase from 28 percent projected in 2018. Matabeleland North had the highest proportion of food insecure households while Mashonaland Central and Midlands have the lowest at 47 percent,” the report said. — @thamamoe.