The Chronicle Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent ZIMCOKE (Pvt) Limited chief executive officer, Mr Bill Moore, has died. He was 68. Mr Moore, who was diagnosed with lung cancer last November at a South African hospital and has been battling the disease since, died at his Harare residence on Sunday. In his condolence message, Industry and Commerce Minister Nqobizitha Mangaliso Ndlovu said Mr Moore died at a time when the country needed his services more. “It is with great sadness to learn of the passing on of Mr Moore. I pray his family find comfort in these trying times. “I was out of the country when I learnt of his untimely passing. He passed on at a time when Government needed him more as we were finalising on the ZimCoke deal,” he said. At the time of his death, the Redcliff-based company was in the last stages of taking over a coking plant within the defunct steelmaking giant, Zisco, with renovations set to commence. ZimCoke took over a coke oven battery plant segment within Zisco under a $133 million deal. Mr Moore’s son, Robert, said his late father was not only an asset to the family but the country as a whole. “He was never bothered about the material things. He never drew attention to himself. He was a family man, a businessman and a man of the community. Not only the family but the nation as a whole has been dealt a major blow by his untimely death” said Robert. He said his father saw his death coming. “A couple of weeks before he passed on, he said to me, why am I being taken now? I have so much more I want to give to my country,” said Robert. Mr Moore, who moved to Zimbabwe in 1982 on a short-term contract, saw opportunities in farming and later ventured into real estate both in Zimbabwe and his native England. He would later serve as the youngest Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries president in 1992. In 1996, he was voted industrialist of the year and was a man with keen interest in community development projects. Despite having relocated permanently to Zimbabwe which he called home, Mr Moore never cut his ties with his native England as evidenced by a number of business ventures and roles which included being the Zimbabwe representative of the University of Manchester in the area of Science. Close confidante and business partner, Mr Eddie Cross, described Mr Moore as an astute industrialist. “He made Zimbabwe his home after coming to the country after the attainment of independence. “He took a position in Zimbabwe’s industry and agriculture since 1982 and played a very significant role in the development of these sectors,” he said. A metallurgist, chartered engineer and accomplished businessman, Mr Moore sat on a number of boards including the Zimbabwe Engineering Advisory Board and the Smart Vest Wealth Managers Private Limited. Mr Moore will be buried in Harare on Monday. He is survived by wife, Sue and five children.