The Chronicle Tadious Manyepo, Harare Bureau Harare City 0 – 2 FC Platinum FC PLATINUM coach Norman Mapeza said it was important for the champions to start on a winning note after they scored either side of the break to beat Harare City at Rufaro yesterday. Ali Sadiki and Elvis Moyo scored the goals for the Zvishavane side in this Castle Lager Premiership opener. Mapeza, who has turned his team into a formidable force after winning the league title in the past two seasons, said it was a crucial win. This is a massive win for us, we always struggle every time we come to play in Harare, especially against Harare City. “The last time we won here was in 2014 (against Harare City) I think. Well done to the boys for the spirit. “When we started playing in the Champions League in January, nobody told any club in the league not to start preparing for the season,’’ said Mapeza. Harare City coach, Mark Harrison, who had prior to the match said FC Platinum were better prepared for the match than his side, said they played a fitter opponent. “Look it was always going to be difficult for us. They have been playing competitive football in the last three months while we are coming from off season,” said Harrison. “It will, obviously, take us two to three games to be where we are supposed to be. To play FC Platinum in the first game of the season is always difficult because of the match fitness level but I thought we managed the game well. “We started the game slowly in the first half as we needed to conserve energy for the second half. In the second half I think we had a lot more energy and we showed that. “You know if we had got to the half time nil-all it could have been a different story but then we conceded a silly goal, a straight ball into the box and the centre back is sleeping…” In the initial stages of the match, FC Platinum looked like a side which would harvest goals as they probed the Harare City goal but Perfect Chikwende and Sadiki were guilty of missing some good chances. Harare City were marginally the better team in the second half but couldn’t apply the finishing touches. Teams Harare City: M. Nyamupangedengu, M. Machazane, T. Chimwemwe, M. Muchenje, M. Ncube, R. Uchena, W. Mukanga,  T. Tavengwa, I. Wadi ( W. Manondo 78th min) , M. Vengesai (T. Tumba 78th min) , W. Muvirimi (K. Misharu 62nd min) FC Platinum: P. Mhari, G. Bello, E. Moyo, L. Mhlanga, K. Moyo, R. Kutsanzira, N. Tigere (E Madhanaga 59th min) , A. Sadiki, P. Chikwende, R. Pavari, K. Madzongwe