The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent VICE President Kembo Mohadi has implored police to execute their duties diligently as their conduct has implications on investors’ perceptions of the country. VP Mohadi said this on Friday during a ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of Cowdray Park Police Station in Bulawayo. The VP said a stable country is a good base for investors. “Therefore, this occasion we are witnessing is consistent with the basic human need for security. It dovetails with His Excellency the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe Comrade E.D Mnangagwa’s dream to establish a peaceful and stable upper middle income by 2030,” said VP Mohadi. “As your leadership, we acknowledge that business can flourish in a secure environment, therefore security is critical for ensuring investor confidence as expected by those who would want to invest in our beautiful country.” He said police have a duty to protect even local businesses unlike what happened during January protests that resulted in businesses losing their properties to looters. VP Mohadi said the construction of Cowdray Park Police Station is in line with Government’s development trajectory which will see the suburb being expanded under Government’s ambitious Command Housing plan. Speaking during the same event, the Officer Commanding Bulawayo Metropolitan Province Commissioner Bernard Dumbura said Cowdray Park is one of the city’s fastest growing suburbs and has a high crime rate. “Cowdray Park is a fast growing suburb in Bulawayo and our crime statistics indicate that there is an upsurge in crimes of concern that include murder, rape and robbery to mention but a few. According to statistics for the Zimbabwe Republic Police, Luveve station receives on average 160 cases per month. Out of these cases 60 percent come from Cowdray Park area. These statistics have necessitated the establishment of a fully-fledged police station in Cowdray Park for us to give a full measure of service to the people,” said Comm Dumbura. He said police have already started operating from the stand in response to crime concerns raised by the community. “One of the concerns you raised as a community is that there is a need for a police station as the post is too small and cannot fully cater for the policing needs of the whole Cowdray Park community. Today we are here as an answer to your request. We are a listening police service,” said Comm Dumbura. The stand is located in a place popularly known as emapayipini where they are many Bulawayo City Council sewer pipes. The Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Bulawayo Cde Judith Ncube, Zanu-PF Secretary for Administration Cde Obert Mpfu and senior and junior police officers among others witnessed the ground-breaking ceremony. – @nqotshili