The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters Association (ZNSSA) meets in Harare tomorrow to rebrand the organisation. Munhuwashe Ndanga, the association’s treasurer, said they will intensify the campaign for supporters to rally behind the Warriors, who take on Congo in the final qualifier of the Afcon at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. “We are having a launch where a new national executive will be presented in Harare on Tuesday. We’ve invited corporates, fans and representatives of football fans from other provinces to the launch. Our desire is to rebrand the association, and with the founding president of ZNSSA Eddie Mboma Nyatanga ‘retiring’, the new working committee’s biggest assignment is to drum up support for the Warriors ahead of the big game on Sunday,” said Ndanga. “What is good to note is that provincial structures have been aggressively marketing the game, especially through social media platforms like WhatsApp groups. We want the whole nation to rally behind the Warriors and we will fill National Sports Stadium to the rafters next Sunday.” He said the provincial structures will feed into the national executive. Meanwhile, Warriors players from the 28-member squad named by coach Sunday Chidzambwa last week are expected to report for camp today. The Lamontville Golden Arrows pair of midfielder Danny Phiri and left-back Divine Lunga were recalled after missing the 0-1 loss to Liberia through injury. The pair have been good performers for their club alongside striker Knox Mutizwa, who also received a call-up. Germany-based Kelvin Lunga received his first national team call-up, while former Tsholotsho FC central midfielder Butholezwe Ncube, who plays for AmaZulu in South Africa, was also called up. Belgium-based Marvelous Nakamba has been ruled out of the Congo tie due to injury, but has indicated that he will attend camp to support his teammates. Warriors provisional squad Goalkeepers: George Chigova (Polokwane City, South Africa), Edmore Sibanda (Witbank Spurs, South Africa), Petros Mhari (FC Platinum) Defenders: Divine Lunga Divine (Lamontville Golden Arrows, South Africa), Marshall Munetsi (Orlando Pirates, South Africa), Teenage Hadebe (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa), Alec Mudimu (CEFN Druids, Wales), Tendayi Darikwa (Nottingham Forest, England), Jimmy Dzingai (Power Dynamos, Zambia), Ronald Pfumbidzai (Bloemfontein Celtic, South Africa), Godknows Murwira (FC Platinum) Midfielders: Tafadzwa Kutinyu (Azam, Tanzania), Richard Hachiro (Herentals), Marvelous Nakamba (Club Brugge KV, Belgium), Kudakwashe Mahachi (Orlando Pirates, South Africa), Leeroy Mavunga (Yadah Stars), Knowledge Musona (KSC Lokeren Oost-Vlaanderen, Belgium), Ovidy Karuru, Butholezwe Ncube and Talent Chawapihwa (all Amazulu, South Africa), Kelvin Lunga (SV Rodinghausen, Germany), Khama Billiat (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa), Danny Phiri (Lamontville Golden Arrows, South Africa) Strikers: Tinotenda Kadewere (Le Havre AC, France), Evans Rusike (SuperSport United, South Africa), Admiral Muskwe (Leicester City, England), Knox Mutizwa (Golden Arrows), Abbas Amidu (Arar, Saudi Arabia) — @ZililoR