The Chronicle Mukudzei Chingwere, Harare Bureau CAF’s unfair and brutal treatment of FC Platinum in this year’s Champions League has been exposed by the letter which the continental football governing body wrote to Zifa just last month. In that letter, Caf deputy secretary-general, football and development, Anthony Baffoe, declared Mandava had been cleared to host FC Platinum’s remaining Champions League fixtures. “With regards to the inspection visit conducted by Caf for the Barbourfields Stadium, Mandava Stadium and National Sports Stadium, we would like to inform you that Caf has decided to provisionally approve the Mandava Stadium,’’ Baffoe wrote. “This stadium will be available to host the remaining matches of FC Platinum during their participation in the 2018/2019 Caf Champions League. “Kindly find annexed to this letter, the comments and remarks with regards to all 3 stadiums. “The comments and remarks specific to the provisionally approved stadium must be addressed as soon as possible in order to ensure that in the future this stadium receives a permanent and definitive approval from Caf. “Caf will continue to monitor the stadium situation during the next matches in order to ensure that the stadium is brought to the required level. “We appreciate your continuous support in helping us raise the level of our African football with improved facilities as we continue to gain exposure to a global audience.’’ However, this week, Caf had a change of heart and ruled FC Platinum should host African champions, Esperance, at Barbourfields. Zifa president, Felton Kamambo, has already written to Caf to express his displeasure at the way FC Platinum have been treated. He questioned why Caf had, at the last minute, raised the issue of accomodation for the fans of the Tunisian giants in Zvishavane when it was never an issue in their communication last month. The Zvishavane side will be without regular defenders; Kevin Moyo, Gift Bello as well as defensive midfielder Kelvin Madzongwe for tomorrow’s match.