The Chronicle Tendai Mugabe, Harare Bureau
THE 26-member Presidential Advisory Council set by President Mnangagwa recently is having its inaugural meeting with the President at State House tomorrow. Cabinet ministers and their permanent secretaries are also expected to attend the meeting. The advisory council comprises experts and leaders drawn from diverse sectors like business, health and social protection, agriculture, governance and human rights, faith-based organisations, tourism, education, minorities, ICT, civil society, communication and media management. Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Dr Misheck Sibanda confirmed the meeting in a statement yesterday. “You are hereby invited to attend His Excellency President E.D Mnangagwa’s inaugural briefing session for members of the newly established Presidential Advisory Council at State House on Thursday 7th March 2019, at 0930 hours,” said Dr Sibanda. “Ministers should be accompanied by their permanent secretaries. Your usual cooperation is greatly appreciated.” In his speech on the inception of the PAC, Dr Sibanda said the council would act as the President’s “sounding board” on key economic reforms, issues and initiatives. He said that was in line with the “Zimbabwe is open for business” mantra and the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (STP). Services of PAC members is voluntary and they serve at the pleasure of the President. PAC is supposed to proffer ideas and suggestions on key reforms and measures needed to improve the investment and business climate in the country for economic recovery and growth. “It is expected to contribute towards policies and measures, short medium and long term, for the growth of the economy,” said Dr Sibanda. “On the strength of the country’s resources, to suggest best strategies for leveraging them to best national advantage; to advise and develop strategies for making Zimbabwe a modern, industrialised and food-secure, higher middle income by 2030; to input into policies and strategies for inclusive and balanced growth in line with the policy on decentralisation and devolution and to advise on the integration of science, technology, research and innovation in the economy.” The advisory council should provide infrastructural strategies and investments meant to transform the country into a land-linked regional logistical and trading hub. The PAC is also expected to advise on developing sector by sector strategic value-chains for the economy which are linked to international markets. It is supposed to advise on national energy development strategy which makes Zimbabwe competitive; to suggest blue prints for regulatory frameworks and institutions for a modern, market-driven, business-friendly economy; to advise on strategies for building strong and gainful global partnerships, as well as maximising on Zimbabwe’s bilateral and multilateral relations and to proffer ideas of building a Sovereign Wealth Fund and to ensure that national growth and development strategies are built on environmental safeguards for future generations. The advisory council is mandated with organising interactions between the President, local and international businesses. From time-to-time, the advisory council should help with a comprehensive situational analysis on the state of the economy and investment climate in the country.