The Chronicle John Manzongo in New York, USA Zimbabwe has made strides in ensuring gender equality in a lot of areas, a cabinet minister has said. Speaking on the sidelines of the 63rd Commission on the Status of Women underway here, Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa said the Second Republic headed by President Mnangagwa is committed to fulfil the constitutional requirements on gender balance. “The Second Republic as you can see has tried to address gender disparities such as the introduction of women microfinance bank where women can access finance without hustles such as collateral. “More and more women are now heading powerful Ministries such as Defence and Information and also our President went a mile further by appointing five out of 10 Ministers of State making it 50-50 representation in that sector. These Ministers are here attending this conference and this is an opportunity for them to take ideas back to their provinces as they grapple with the issue of devolution and this certainly includes women,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. “We are showcasing all these success stories here at the UN meeting. Our First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa as you are aware is doing a lot to empower women and young girls. Her latest initiative of inheritance educational tours around the country has clearly opened the eyes of many women on how best they can protect themselves upon deaths of their spouses. “She realised the country has good laws but the supposed beneficiaries were not aware so she made sure that she took the initiative to the grassroots levels and be able to protect the women.” Minister Mutsvangwa said Zimbabwe’s three percent Aids Levy initiative had received tremendous support from delegates to the meeting. “Zimbabwe has another opportunity at this international forum where women gather to share ideas on how to better womens’ lives. “This year’s theme of social protection of women is most appropriate for all of us. The order we received from the United Nations Secretary General is “push back the push back” and we are ready as women to fight for our position. “We need to throw away as women the notion of pulling another woman down, it should remain in the past. This 63rd conference on status of women will definitely be an eye opener for women around the world,” added Minister Mutsvangwa. The two week long conference is being attended by the First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa, senate President Marble Chinomona, Minister Mutsvangwa and female Ministers of State for Provincial Affairs.