The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MGCINI Nkolomi, the leaseholder of popular nightspot Pub Lagondola that was shutdown this week, has hit back at one of his partners, Jabulani Nyoni, who had blamed him for its closure. The Deputy Sheriff was called in to remove the tenants this week because of rental arrears, a move that has left patrons saddened. Nyoni, who five years ago partnered with Nkolomi for the running of the pub, had accused his partner of misappropriation of funds which ultimately caused arrears to rise to $22 000. However, in an interview on Thursday, Nkolomi said Nyoni and one Danias Mlalazi had failed to keep Pub Lagondola afloat ever since they took over in 2016. He said he had given the duo three conditions to run the pub, one being to pay the rent, his son’s school fees and water/rates bill. “The guys failed dismally to run the business properly. I’m talking about the financial obligations of the business. Our agreement was for them to make sure they pay the rentals, my child’s school fees at Falcon College and the (Bulawayo) City Council rates and water bill. Those were the three major things,” explained Nkolomi. He said this was because they had taken over the business with all its stock and assets. “They took over Lagondola as a growing concern . . . everything was there — furniture, stock you name it. I gave them those conditions as it was as if I was subletting to them,” said Nkolomi. On why he partnered with Nyoni and Mlalazi, Nkolomi said it was because he was impressed by the duo’s computer software that he felt could help his business. “I’ve been a tenant there for over 12 years and in 2016, these guys were offering software services for my other businesses. They then claimed that they could use their system to improve the systems at Lagondola. “As a business person, I fell for it so I got into a relationship with them solely because of their strength in the system. I thought I’d get value for money by partnering with them.” However, after the death of Pub Lagondola’s landlord — Mrs Di Prinizio in 2017, Nkolomi said he discovered that the duo had racked up a bill which to date, stands at $33 000. “When the landlord passed away, this meant that the estate had to be wound up and the financial obligations had to be met. Since this became of major interest to the executor of the estate, the arrears had to be paid and the major one was city council which was at $33 000,” said Nkolomi. Given that he was the leaseholder, Nkolomi was informed that he needed to pay all these bills. He then told the duo that they needed to settle the debts but they were not forthcoming. To try and resolve the mess, Nkolomi said he tried to take over the business last year. “I spoke to the guys and told them we’d been given five months to regularise this. When I realised that they were incapable of paying and intervened, I discovered that they had run it (Lagondola) down. They couldn’t even restock the business so I had to move in and bought four refrigerators as there were no more working fridges. “Furniture was in tatters as well.” He said his efforts were rebuffed as they took him to court. “The executor was knocking at my door demanding for money and there was no way that I was going to move money from other businesses to help this one. So there were two things that needed to happen, either I make sure they settle the arrears or rescue my lease. “When I moved in around February, in 2018, I ran the place for about six weeks. I revamped it and business was doing well. These guys, however, went to court and sought a spoliation (saying I had evicted them illegally without following proper channels). They were granted but not based on merit.” As the case dragged for months in the courts, Nkolomi said he decided not to renew his lease afterwards. “Unfortunately, the case dragged for some three months and when the verdict came, my lease was expiring in two months’ time (August, 2018). It expired and I told my landlord that I wouldn’t be renewing it because of the challenges I was facing with these guys,” said Nkolomi. Since Nkolomi was no longer supposed to be on the premises as he was no longer the leaseholder, Nyoni and Mlalazi were also supposed to vacate as they were under him, but they refused. As a result, the events that transpired this week were a culmination of Nyoni and Mlalazi’s refusal to move out. Sadly for Nkolomi, he is now expected to clear the Lagondola arrears as everything is registered under his name. “They (executors of the estate) said the only person they’d deal with is me not those guys because they only know me. I was told to pay up everything and sort out my mess,” said Nkolomi. He has agreed to settle the debt and plans to retrieve all his money from the duo.