The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
FIRST Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa yesterday said chiefs’ spouses need to be supported to adequately play the critical role of supporting the work of chiefs in the country. She said traditional leadership is very important in the country and Government has made sure that there are laws to guide the work of chiefs which made them custodians of culture, heritage, minerals, allocation of rural lands and ensuring no one died of hunger in our communities. The First Lady said this in a speech read on her behalf by Deputy Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Cde Jennifer Mhlanga during the First Lady interface with the chiefs’ wives from Matabeleland and Midlands provinces in Bulawayo yesterday. “Statistics show that almost 80 percent of our people stay in rural areas. Without you as helpers our chiefs cannot manage alone. “This therefore means that you are a very special group as you stand day in and day out helping our chiefs to care for the communities. Let me encourage you to continue doing good in helping our chiefs to look after their constituencies,” she said. She said her office together with the Angel of Hope Foundation was doing humanitarian activities in the country and said she is looking forward to joining hands with the chief’s wives to work on improving the people’s lives. “Today I am calling upon you all chiefs’ wives to take it upon yourselves to work for the development of your communities. I am available to work with you, sharing ideas and linking with Government departments and also organisations that complement Government developmental work,” she said. The First Lady encouraged women and girls to go for cancer screening as the disease was affecting mostly women and girls. “The challenge with cancer is that you can live your life without knowing you are affected hence my continuous call for all women to be screened. I have a mobile clinic which travels around the country offering free screening services to help reduce loss of lives to cancer especially cervical and breast cancers. “I am also focused on our girl child ensuring that she has equal opportunities with her boy counterpart in all spheres of life. Let’s encourage our girls to complete their education and keep discouraging them from early marriages and pregnancies which destroy their future,” she said.  The First Lady also spoke against gender-based violence. “Our girl child has many obstacles ranging from non-completion of higher education, being used to appease avenging spirits, being married off to very old men against their wishes and many more. Also we have some of our people who have disabilities and in need of our help in society and I am offering assistance to them all,” she said. Bulawayo Minister for Provincial Affairs, Cde Judith Ncube said the importance of women in a given society cannot be over emphasised. “I am very confident that this gathering, a first of its kind, will contribute significantly to gender equality and women empowerment in the rural areas. As a nation, we need to create opportunities to unlock women’s potential to exploit both social and economic circles,” she said. Cde Ncube thanked the First Lady for her concern for the people of Zimbabwe with the full knowledge that when you empower a woman you empower a nation.
Police Commissioner Charity Charamba also encouraged women to report abuse cases. Zimbabwe Women’s Microfinance chief executive officer, Mrs Mandas Marikanda implored women to apply for loans and to venture in castor bean farming. The chiefs’ wives asked questions regarding their welfare after spousal deaths, challenges they encounter in their societies such as water problems and need for support in awareness campaigns. Chiefs from Matabeleland accompanied their wives to the meeting which was also graced by Matabeleland South Minister of State Cde Abednico Ncube, Ambassador Mary Mubi, and Deputy Speaker of Parliament, Cde Tsitsi Gezi. – @AuxiliaK