The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE SPORTS Leaders’ Institute of Zimbabwe (Sliz) has invited local authorities to its third edition of the autumn camp, as they are responsible for providing sport and recreational facilities. The camp will run from March 29-31 in Chiredzi. Russell Mhiribidi, the Sliz president, said the local authorities have a major role to play in shaping Zimbabwe’s sports industry and they should provide facilities for Early Childhood Development (ECD) athletes up to professionals. “We have covered the new education curricula, with focus on sport as an examinable subject as well as enhancing the teaching of mass displays. Topics like conflict management in tertiary sport, corporate governance in tertiary sport as well as continuous assessment of the new physical education and sports curriculum have also been covered,” said Mhiribidi. “But, now in pursuit of the foundation that has been laid to have sports as a viable industry in the country, we feel that there is need to look at facilities and sport and recreation amenities. There, we’re looking at local, rural and urban authorities to do their part in amenities provision because the Act clearly states that they (local authorities) have to provide for sport and recreation which are a basis for sport development. I think as a nation or ratepayers we have let our local authorities get away with ‘murder’ for a long time because they’re no longer doing their duty to maintain and provide these sporting amenities. So, as sports leaders, we are saying local authorities are partners in sports development and they must provide services and facilities.” He said as most sporting disciplines’ season starts, they will remind participants on how they can forge partnerships with organisations for the good of their disciplines or clubs. The autumn camp will also tackle the financial management, sponsorship and key planning topics. “We’ve invited experts to present on topics that affect our sports associations, clubs, schools, tertiary and higher institutions. A better equipped administrator and coach leads to a complete athlete. Zimbabwe is in need of podium athletes and as such, we should all pull in the same direction,” said Mhiribidi. — @ZililoR