The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter TEAMS with stability financially and on the field of play, start the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season as favourites. However, traditional giants, Caps United, Dynamos and Highlanders, as always, cannot be ruled out of the title race. Their fans are always expecting that the giants, even with average players are also title favourites. The domestic league roared to life yesterday, with cash-rich defending champions FC Platinum firing warning shots as they picked maximum points away at Harare City who they beat 2-0. City, sponsored by City of Harare are financially stable and despite losing to FC Platinum are among favourites. FC Platinum who didn’t have an offseason break because of their participation in the Caf Champions League where they bowed out at group stages, are arguably the most fit side, and if they capitalise on that before fatigue strikes and collect as many points as  possible, then they are destined for a third consecutive title. Some of the well-backed sides expected to put up a strong title challenge are 2015 champions Chicken Inn, Ngezi Platinum Stars, Manica Diamonds and Triangle United. Chicken Inn who beefed up their squad with nine players take on ZPC Kariba at Luveve Stadium this afternoon. Chicken Inn’s new signings are former Ngezi Platinum Stars’ trio of goalkeeper Donovan Bernard, defensive midfielder Tinashe Chipunza and striker Clive Augusto, winger Malvin Gaki, former Dynamos pair of right back Phakamani Dube and midfielder Valentine Kadonzvo, central midfielder Sipho Ndlovu who joined the club from Bulawayo City and unheralded Nyasha Gurende. Midfielder Bret Amidu signed from FC Platinum completes the list of new faces at Chicken Inn. ZPC Kariba who had a false start in the 2018 season, failing to turn up for their home game against FC Platinum, leading to a walkover, are capable of shocking Chicken Inn right in their backyard. Bulawayo soccer giants, Highlanders, travel to Harare to face Black Rhinos this afternoon, knowing that the army side are no pushovers. Bosso had their preparations for the season affected by player strikes over bonuses, but the club chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube said the Bulawayo giants are ready to fight for honours. Highlanders took along six of their preseason signings, goalkeeper Wellington Muuya, midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku and the attacking quartet of Prince Dube, Cleopas Kapupurika, Mbekezeli Sibanda and Zambia striker Peter Nyirenda. Dynamos are tipped to start on a brighter side by seeing off Mushowani Stars of Mashonaland Central at Rufaro Stadium today. Mushowani Stars are the home team at DeMbare’s favourite hunting ground. Titanic clashes are on cards tomorrow, with Caps United playing host to Luke Masomere’s Manica Diamonds who have been busy on the market beefing up their squad. The other exciting encounter is the Triangle United versus Ngezi Platinum’s at Gibbo Stadium. Match Day 1 Yesterday: Harare City 0-2 FC Platinum Today: Black Rhinos v Highlanders (National Sports Stadium), Chicken Inn v ZPC Kariba (Luveve Stadium), Mushowani Stars v Dynamos (Rufaro), Chapungu v Bulawayo Chiefs (Mandava) Tomorrow: Caps United v Manica Diamonds (National Sports  Stadium), Triangle United v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Gibbo Stadium), Hwange v Yadah (Colliery Stadium), Herentals v TelOne (Rufaro) — @ZililoR