The Chronicle Business Reporter MORE than 100 international buyers from different source markets are expected to participate at the 12th edition of the Sanganai/Hlanganani World Tourism Expo to be held in Bulawayo in September. Registration for the annual event, which is organised by the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA), is already underway. In a press briefing yesterday, ZTA acting chief executive Mrs Rita Likukuma said the fair would be held from September 12-14 at the Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre. She said the registration has opened and exhibition space will be allocated on a first come first served basis. “The 2019 edition is expected to host over 100 international buyers from the various source markets. We want this edition to be much bigger and definitely much better,” said Mrs Likukuma. “All exhibitors were urged to book early to avoid last minute disappointments. The 2018 edition registered 318 exhibitors and it is envisaged that this number will be surpassed given the interest that has come through from first time exhibitors.” She said the screening criteria for international buyers would be strict as the focus was to host buyers who are serious about bringing business to Zimbabwe and who also have potential to invest in the tourism industry. Mrs Likukuma expressed excitement and enthusiasm saying the popular speed networking sessions introduced two editions back had yielded great benefits for participants. “This has worked greatly for exhibitors who have utilised this forum to introduce their product and service offerings to international buyers. “Speed networking will take place on September 12 and 13, which also marks the business days of the expo,” she said. Mrs Likukuma appealed to every operator across the country to come out and take advantage of the upcoming fair, pointing out that no operator was small in tourism and thus everyone has a market to serve. “We want everyone to be present. It is my wish to also have tourism operators and supplies from Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs),” said Mrs Likukuma. In order to give every operator an opportunity to meet with international buyers at Sanganai/Hlanganani, ZTA is offering 10 percent discount to exhibitors who register at the authority’s stand during the forthcoming Zimbabwe International Trade Fair to be held in Bulawayo from April 23 to 27.