The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter THE Deputy Minister of Transport and Infrastructural Development, Cde Fortune Chasi, has commended taxi associations in Bulawayo for their various corporate social responsibility efforts. Cde Chasi was speaking following a donation made by taxi associations in Bulawayo towards the victims of Cyclone Idai. Taxi associations donated three tonnes of mealie-meal to the flood areas. The Deputy Minister took to his official twitter account to express his views on the gesture by the taxi associations. “Thank you Kombi associations from Bulawayo for donating three tonnes of maize meal. That is real corporate social responsibility. You heard a plea of help and responded,” he said. In a telephone interview last week, Cde Chasi said he was proud of the manner in which taxi associations had launched a funeral assistance scheme which has been successfully running for over four years. “We are aware of the various activities that taxi associations in Bulawayo are involved in. Such acts are commendable as they are giving back to the community that they serve. We only hope that the love is spread and other taxi associations elsewhere may spread the love and identify needs in their communities and do something,” said the Deputy Minister. “We understand that taxi associations, particularly in high density areas, offer free transport to bereaved families to and from the cemetery. “This is commendable as many people in our communities do not have funeral policies or have policies that do not have a bus. Offering these three or four kombis to a family allows them to be able to bury their loved ones in dignity without having to stress about finances to hire a car to ferry mourners to the cemetery and back.” Taxi associations such as Bulawayo Public Transport Association (BUPTA), Tshova Mubaiwa Transport Co-operation and Bulawayo City Transit Trust all offer free funeral transport services to bereaved families. The scheme was started in 2015. “This is expected from all service providers in general. Each one of us must give something back to our community. It is the small gestures that make the biggest differences,” said the Deputy Minister. Cde Chasi invited taxi associations to dialogue if they have grievances. “We have had some meetings with taxi associations pertaining to various grievances that they have. “Let me say this to them. Our doors are open and we are here for dialogue that will improve the transport sector in the county,” he said. — @andile_tshuma