The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter BULAWAYO Chiefs yesterday announced that they had settled on their 30-man squad for the 2019 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season that kicks off on March 30. In a statement, Bulawayo Chiefs press liaison officer Thulani Javas Sibanda said the technical team had selected a mixed bag of young, mature, experienced and talented players for this season. “Following the departure of a few of our seasoned players, there had been a few gaps left to fill and we had a number of talented players that came through to try their luc. Notable departures from our 2018 squad include Gracious Muleya, Perfect Chikwende and Andrew Tandi,” said Sibanda. Amakhosi Amahle returned most of their players and they have loaned out some of their players so that they get game time. “Of major note is that we had a number of foreign players who got wind of our plans to recruit and made their way to the country for trials. You will note that we have signed a player from Ghana, Francis Atsu. “We roped in Nigel Papius from FC Platinum, Talent Machimbiridze from Highlanders as well as Michael Bhebhe and Tinashe Mthimkhulu from Chicken Inn,” he said. The club also signed a number of youngsters, who include goalkeeper Matripples Muleya, defender Brandon Mpofu and midfielders Ashley Ndiweni, Meluleki Nkomo and Tafadzwa Dhliwayo. The team also retained the services of goalkeepers David Bizabani and Winston Chiwetu as well as experienced defender Lee Matizirofa. The midfield department has been boosted by the return of Mengezi Dube, who had been on loan to Whawha in the Central Soccer League. “Crispen Machisi got the nod from the coaches as well as Talent Machimbiridze from Highlanders. Michael Bhebhe from Chicken Inn joins Takunda Muzuva, Eddie Chidavaenzi, Shepard Mhlanga, Michael Ndlovu, Meluleki Nkomo and Tafadzwa Dhliwayo in midfield. “We expect a very exciting season with many goals from our strikers, who include Farawu Matare, Kundishora Chakanyuka, who have been joined by Nigel Papius, Hussain Zwakavapano and Francis Atsu,” Sibanda said. – @DecoDecent2