The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
THE deputy president of the Chiefs’ Council, Chief Mtshane Khumalo, has dismissed as false, reports that he has written to the Government to recall Chief Nhanhlayamangwe Ndiweni of Ntabazinduna from his chieftaincy. He said he has no powers to recall another chief and there are legal channels to be followed for such a procedure to be effected. In an interview on the sidelines of the First Lady’s interface meetings with chiefs’ wives at the Bulawayo Polytechnic College on Monday, the traditional leader said it was not within his mandate to do so. “I don’t write a letter for the appointment or dismissal of any chief. The installation or recalling of a chief is done by the family. Secondly, if the family chooses to do so it passes through the provincial assembly and from there it goes to the Chiefs’ Council, then proceeds to the Minister of Local Government and finally the President who appoints the Chiefs. “I believe nxa sekulokukhitshwa loba ngingazange ngikubone proper procedure must be followed. Even Chief Charumbira as the president of the Chiefs’ Council, cannot install or recall another Chief. There is no way I could have written such a letter,” said Chief Mtshane Khumalo. Matabeleland chiefs’ secretary Mr Nothiwani Dlodlo, in a tweet, alleged that Chief Mtshane Khumalo had instructed Government to recall Chief Ndiweni. “Chief Mtshane Khumalo of Bubi district has officially written a letter to the Minister of Local Government instructing him to recall Chief Ndiweni. The Secretary has refused to sign and has asked the Ministry to follow due process,” read the tweet. Chief Mtshane Khumalo challenged Mr Dlodlo to produce the alleged letter. “That person claiming that I wrote that letter must show the world the said letter which states that I have powers to remove other chiefs. The Constitution does not allow that, one has to follow procedure,” he said. Asked why it had taken long to legalise the chieftaincy of Chief Ndiweni, he said: “From my little knowledge, I think they had chosen Nhanhlayamangwe but if they have changed their mind it’s still not my business, it’s the duty of the provincial assembly, chiefs’ council, Minister and the President. So I don’t know where they stand as a family because I have never met them over the issue”. — @AuxiliaK