The Chronicle Mehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe national sevens rugby team, the Cheetahs head into camp on Tuesday as they prepare for the Kwese Invitational Sevens to be staged at Harare Sports Club on Saturday as well as Sunday. Cheetahs coach, Gilbert Nyamutsamba said the payers will assemble in Harare on Tuesday before camp starts the next day. “We are assembling in Harare on Tuesday and camp starts on Wednesday, that’s the desired plan,’’ Nyamutsamba said. Some of the new players that Nyamutsamba has called include the Australia based Hayden Wilson and a couple of former Zimbabwe Under-20 players. Zimbabwe will field two teams at the Kwese Invitational Sevens, these being the Cheetahs and the Goshawks. The other men’s teams participating are Botswana, Georgia, Mbare Academy, Malawi, Lesotho, Uganda, Zambezi Steelers and Zambia. For the women, Botswana, Lady Cheetahs, Matabeleland, Zambia and Zimbabwe A will take to the field on those two days. It is the third time that the Kwese tournament is taking place, with the first two editions having been staged in Victoria Falls. The Cheetahs won the inaugural competition in 2017 with a 24-7 triumph over Namibia before they were beaten 10-5 by Kenya in last year’s final. With the first two editions of the tournament not getting enough support in terms of attendance in Victoria Falls, the Aaron Jani led Zimbabwe Rugby Union decided to move the tournament to Harare where they are hoping to get a good turnout over the two days. Nyamutsamba is looking to use the Kwese Invitational Sevens to prepare the Cheetahs for the Hong Kong qualifier in April where Zimbabwe will once again try to become a core member of the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series, something that has continuously eluded the over the years. Cheetahs training squad: Hayden Wilson, Kudzai Mashawi, Blithe Mavesera, Godfrey Magaramombe, Kudakwashe Chiwanza, Jerry Jaravaza, Takudzwa Francisco, Akim Dick, Tich Hwangwa, Martin Mangongo, Shingirai Katsvere, Theo Goredema, Godfrey Muzanargwo, Boyd Rouse, Tinotenda Nyawasha, Lenience Tambwera, Biselele Tshamala, Lucky Sithole, Tatenda Maunga, Andrea Banda, Tatenda Kasotora, Zephaniah Nkomo, Brandon Mandivenga, Tatenda Kandawasvika, Tadiwa Kandawasvika, Stephan Hunduza, Takudzwa Kumadiro, Nelson Madida, Dylan Jera, Brighton Matiashe, Brian Nyaude Team management: Gilbert Nyamutsamba, Gerald Sibanda, Amanda Tererai, Margaret Gibson  — @Mdawini_29