The Chronicle Business Reporter SCHWEPPES Zimbabwe Limited has won the first position in the Southern African Development Community (Sadc) Annual Quality Awards (Saqa) under the large enterprise category for the year 2018-2019. Through the Sadc secretariat, the panel of judges for the Saqa awards commended the work being done by Schweppes Zimbabwe and urged the corporate world to continue on the quest for standards and quality and to serve as an example to other large manufacturing companies of the region. The awards were held at the Sadc Quality Awards 2019 Gala on Wednesday at a hotel in Windhoek, Namibia. Schweppes commercial and public affairs director, Mrs Unaiswi Nyikadzino, said: “We are not surprised by the award. This is now a record fourth time winning the Saqa award. It is just a testimony that our products meet the highest quality and standards to the consumer at local, regional and international level. “As a Coca-Cola bottling partner, we are committed in heart and mind and what we do, we do well. Our products like Mazoe and Minute Maid recently won awards at the Marketers Association Awards here and we are happy we are being recognized regionally and internationally.” She said quality standards were at the heart of Schweppes Zimbabwe business as a distinctive mark on products against competitors. “It is our obligation to deliver products that meet the highest standards and quality,” said Mrs Nyikadzino. Mooted in 2009 by the Sadc Committee of Ministers of Trade and Industry (CMT), the purpose of the Saqa competition is to encourage Sadc businesses, private and public sector institutions to implement standards and quality procedures in their operations. Companies are recognized for having robust quality management systems that have demonstrably contributed to the growth of their businesses. The competition provides Sadc with a platform and an opportunity for local individuals and industries to be more aware of quality issues and cognisant of the fact that success of products in local markets is due in part to excellent quality, which translates to success in regional and international markets. The Sadc Annual Quality Awards have been running since 2011.