The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter FARMERS in Matabeleland region have been urged to put more land under horticulture as the crops would thrive in the region and are in high demand in foreign markets. In an interview, Zimbabwe Federation of Farmers’ Union chairman Mr Wonder Chabikwa said farmers in Matabeleland should consider putting more land under horticulture production as the region has favourable conditions for the sector. “Horticulture was once the country’s third foreign currency earner following tobacco and gold but now it has been pushed to extinction on the list. “Given the good climatic conditions in Matabeleland, farmers should consider putting more land under horticulture crops and also there is a vast market for these crops overseas,” he said. At its peak in 1999, the horticulture sector was the country’s third largest foreign currency earner amassing annual revenue of $142 million. However, at the turn of the millennium, the horticulture sector started shrinking with the country realising earnings as little as $40 million annually. Last year, the country’s trade promotion body, ZimTrade, identified an export market for horticulture products in Botswana. The trade and export promotion body said Zimbabwe contributes 0,2 percent to the neighbouring country’s import bill but there was a chance of improvement to push the bill up. Mr Chabikwa said hybrid crops were the best option for the region because of their immunity to most harmful diseases. Hybrid crops are plants which are created when plant breeders intentionally cross-pollinate two different varieties of a plant, aiming to produce an offspring, or hybrid, that contains the best traits of each of the parents. Cross pollination is a natural process that occurs within members of the same plant species. In the past, Matabeleland region exported paprika, peas and bird’s eye chillies whilst the Midlands farmers exported cut-flowers to the European Union. Mr Chabikwa said efforts to revive the horticulture sector were being made as ZimTrade engaged senior experts from the Netherlands from an organisation known as PUM to assist horticulture farmers with technical expertise to improve productivity. Government has since 2016 carried out various initiatives for the horticulture sector including facilitating a learning visit to Fruit Logistica in Germany. Late last year, Agribank called on horticulture farmers in Matabeleland to apply for loans from the institution so as to boost their production. The bank has unveiled a $10 million facility to support horticulture farmers across the country. — @queentauruszw .