The Chronicle Bridgette Moyo in Gweru PROMISING Zimbabwean sprinter Elizabeth Msipa was on Wednesday on cloud nine after bagging the silver and bronze medals at the South Africa’s premier school’s track & field series, the PUMA School of Speed #5. The event was hosted at the Puk McArthur Stadium on Wednesday evening with junior track & field stars going #ForeverFaster. Msipa who is doing her “O” level at elite Midlands Christian College (MCC) in Gweru came third and won bronze medal in the girls U15 200m crossing the finish line in 25:76 seconds. In the 100m finals Msipa won a silver medal after she came second in a time of 12:80 seconds. Her school mate and also promising sprinter Wadiwanashe Musonza came second in the boy’s under-19 100m. This was the first time that Msipa and Musonza had participated and tasted what it feels like to be on the podium outside our borders. The duo who are also in the NASH national team took the PUMA School of Speed#5 event as a learning curve as they prepare to represent the country at the African Junior Championships to be held in Ivory Coast from the 16 to 20 April. “It’s an honour to come second in the U15 category because I was racing against athletes with the best training facilities I could ever imagine. I went to Potchefstroom to take part in The PUMA School of Speed which was an amazing feeling because the atmosphere was absolutely fantastic and we were all because of the vibrant and good competition,” said Msipa. She said this was an opportunity for her to prepare for Africa junior Championships to be hosted by Ivory Coast next month. “My advice to other athletes is to work hard every single day.  This event also helped me to prepare for the upcoming Africa junior championships. The girls I competed against were and are just stunning athletes.  It takes hard work, so finishing second and third really means a lot to me.  It’s great motivation ahead of the junior Championships in Ivory Coast,” said Msipa. Musonza- who dreams of representing the country in the men’s national team said he had learnt a lot in South Africa and was going to use the knowledge in future events. Junior track & field stars were given the opportunity to meet South African middle-distance runner and 2019 PUMA School of Speed Vice Principal, Gena Löfstrand in the Vice Principal’s office at the stadium. All competitors stood a chance to be scouted and contracted to the PUMA Squad. The contract will be for the duration of one calendar year. Podium winners of each event final took home the following: 1st Place — PUMA School of Speed Tee, PUMA peak cap & category medal. 2nd Place — PUMA School of Speed Tee, PUMA drawstring bag & category medal. 3rd Place — PUMA School of Speed Tee & category medal.