The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter IN a major and unexpected turn around, the Zimbabwe Netball Association (Zina) has decided to cede running of the Netball Super League to the Glow Petroleum-funded Rainbow Amateur Netball League. The two parties have been at loggerheads with Zina refusing to recognise the heavily- funded Ranl to the extent of even writing threatening letters to principals of teams that were playing under Ranl. However, according to the new proposals, Zina wants Ranl “to take over sponsorship of the Netball Super League and run it under a name of their choice.” “If the position finds favour, legal practitioners may meet and draft an agreement between Zina and your client. If the above position is not favoured by yours (Ranl) parties can continue in terms of the earlier proposal that lawyers meet and deliberate on issues to do with your client’s application. If we are to proceed in terms of the earlier agreement, ours (Zina) request that yours furnish us with your attitude as to the issues of contention we had noted in your client’s constitution,” wrote Zina’s lawyers in a communiqué addressed to Ranl’s legal team and gleaned by Chronicle Sport, dated March 21. Ranl were given two days to respond to the proposal. Meanwhile, the Ranl season gets underway today with games taking place in various parts of the country. More teams have chosen to join the new league that has seen the number grow to 22, up from 11 that participated in the national league last year. “We have seven new teams that have come on board from the Zimbabwe Netball Association sponsored super league, and four others that were promoted from the regions. “This brings the total number of teams this season to 22,” Moses Gukurume, the league’s secretary general told our sister paper, The Sunday Mail. Police teams Mambas, Support Unit, PPU and ZRP Harare have officially joined the “amateur” league and will be joined by Golden Valley, Great Zimbabwe University, Mutare City, Rio Zim, Black Rhinos, Ntabazinduna and Tenux netball club. Defending champions, Correctional Queens, get their campaign underway with an away trip to Rio Zimbabwe while 2018 runners up Glow Petroleum have a tricky home fixture against Zimbabwe Defence Forces. Platinum Queens, who finished the season on third place last year, are home to League debutants Ntabazinduna. Another interesting duel will be a derby between uniformed services sides ZRP Queens and Support Unit. For winning the league title last year, Correctional Queens were presented with a trophy and a $20 000 cheque while runners up Glow Petroleum received $18 000 and Platinum Queens got $14 000 for finishing third. Week One fixtures Lusumbami Queens v Flow Angels, Golden Valley v Great Zimbabwe University, ZRP Queens v Support Unit, Beta Queens v Tenux, Shamva v Falcon Queens, Rio Zimbabwe v Correctional Queens, Goldreef v ZRP Harare, Platinum Queens v Ntabazinduna, Mutare City v Black Rhino’s, Ruwa v PPU, Glow Petroleum v ZDF.