The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Wushu Federation is now formally recognised by the International Wushu Federation after settling its arrears with the organisation. The local federation chaired by White Mukweya paid US$2 700 outstanding arrears to the International Wushu Federation and this now allows Zimbabwean fighters to compete in international competitions. “We have managed to clear our debt with the international federation. The implications of this is that we will now be able to send our athletes to participate at international wushu events organisd by the IWUF. It is now possible for us to solicit funding in terms of equipment and technical aspects of the sport, which will go a long way in the development of the sport in the country,” said ZWF. ZWF said it was in the process of regularising its membership with the continental mother body. “We are now working at regularising our membership with the African Wushu Federation, which will in turn see us participating in competitions organised by the AWF,” said ZWF. Wushu is a form of contemporary Chinese martial arts that blends elements of performance and martial application. Wushu training emphasises quickness, explosive power and natural, relaxed movement. The wushu practitioner must combine flexibility with strength, speed, with flawless technique, fierce intent with effortless execution. Modern wushu encompasses a wide variety of Chinese martial arts styles, which can be categorised in several ways. Along one axis, wushu is divided into barehand and weapon-play styles, where the various wushu weapons are grouped into long-range, short-range, flexible, and double weapons. Along another axis, wushu styles are categorised by the martial arts system which created them. For example, the southern martial arts system includes barehand, broadsword and staff styles. Staff styles, on the other hand, have been created by the northern, southern, and even drunken fighting systems. A standard wushu training programme, however, concentrates on a “core curriculum” of eight major styles.