The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu in Gwanda THE Gwanda Tennis Academy will be holding a three-day tennis tournament for learners from Gwanda schools from Friday to Sunday as part of efforts to develop the game in the mining town. The academy’s coach Mtshutshisi Matema said learners from Senondo, Jahunda, St Christopher’s, Gwanda Adventist, Portland, Colleen Bawn, Sabiwa Primary and Gwanda High will participate in the Gwanda Junior Tennis Tournament. He said they were holding the tournament for the first time and hoped to turn it into an annual event. “We will be holding the tournament from 29 to 31 March at the Colleen Bawn Club Tennis Courts. The purpose of this tournament is to develop tennis in our schools. Although participants are from different schools, they will be competing as individuals,” said Matema. “We first held a workshop for the participating schools in January and February and trained children basic skills of playing tennis and now we want them to have a feel of a competition. We held the training with assistance from the Emakhandeni Tennis Academy and Elite Tennis Academy. This is the first time we are holding this tournament. For now it’s for schools from Gwanda and Colleen Bawn, but we hope to turn it into an annual event and incorporate schools from other districts and provinces so that our players get more exposure,” he said. Matema said players will receive medals and t-shirts as prizes. They will compete in four categories; Under-10s, Under-12s, Under-14s and Under-18s. He hopes more schools would be inspired to invest in tennis. “Tennis is not prominent in most Gwanda schools, but we are glad some schools are starting to appreciate it. Most schools, however, don’t have tennis courts, which makes it difficult for pupils to train. We want schools to invest in the sport so that every child is given an opportunity. We want children to be trained from an early stage and for them to realise that tennis is a viable sporting career,” he said. Matema also revealed that they were plans to renovate tennis courts at the Gwanda District Club. He said the academy will register its players with the Sports and Recreation Commission and Tennis Zimbabwe so that their annual tournament is recognised. – @DubeMatutu.