The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent THE draft Zimbabwe National Industrial Development Policy (ZNIDP 2019- 2023) is set to be tabled before Cabinet for discussion and possible approval as part of efforts to boost domestic production, Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce, Raj Modi, has said. Speaking recently in Gwanda, Deputy Minister Modi said the proposed policy will seek to create a favourable climate for resuscitation of distressed industries and promotion of rural industrialisation, among others. “The scope of industrialisation under the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP) is to resuscitate industries and promote industry development. Government has put in place various development strategies and one of them is the formulation and implementation of the Zimbabwe National Industrial Development Policy (ZNIDP),” said the Deputy Minister. “A draft policy for the years 2019 to 2023 is in place and is awaiting approval by Cabinet. Strategic interventions under the draft industrial development policy include value addition and beneficiation, import substitution, resuscitation of distressed industries, promotion of rural industry development, development and implementation of industrial value chains, implementation of local content strategies and export developments.” In line with the devolution initiative, Deputy Minister Modi said Government was working on facilitating operations of key industries in Matabeleland South Province such as Beitbridge Juicing, which is involved in the production of concentrates from citrus fruits. He said Government in collaboration with the private sector and various development partners will also promote rural industrialisation through provision of incentives, targeted financing, policy support and business development services. Deputy Minister Modi said preliminary assessments of growth points had been conducted to evaluate the potential of enhancing industrialisation and commercial activities at these areas. “The target will be micro, small, medium and large scale manufacturing industries in the country’s provinces and rural growth points. Tourism and cultural centres consisting of leisure and tourist parks can be set up in the province. Mat South boasts of big tracts of conservancies and cultural artefacts such as ilala and maramani. “The development of value chains is in line with the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP) and is a key driver for industrialisation. It is necessary in the attainment of an upper middle income status by 2030. My Ministry is also working on promotion of value chain development in selected identified areas, which have high employment and export potential as well as comparative and competitive advantages,” he said. The Deputy Minister said potential value chains in Matabeleland South Province included beef value chain processing, agro processing, mineral beneficiation and value addition, leather value chain among others. “Achievement of our industrialisation targets under the devolution agenda highly depends on the ability of provincial economies to localise national industrialisation initiatives as well as coming up with localised interventions. “Existence of a coordinated and collaborative approach between the government, value chain players and other key stakeholders is also imperative in ensuring inclusive and participatory local industrial growth and development,” he said. – @DubeMatutu