The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent THE chairman of the Umzingwane Small Scale Miners’ Association, Mr Bhekisisa Mkandla, lost US$30 000, a pistol and other personal documents after they were stolen from his vehicle while he was attending a mining workshop at the Gwanda District Club. Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson Chief Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the incident which occurred in Gwanda on Thursday. He said Mr Mkandla (39) of Esigodini had left his valuables which were in a satchel in his car which was locked. Chief Insp Ndebele said Mr Mkandla realised that his valuables were missing at around 3PM when he went to his car after the meeting. “I can confirm that we recorded a case of theft from a motor vehicle which occurred on Thursday at the Gwanda District Club. The complainant Bhekisisa Mkandla who is the chairman of the Umzingwane Small Scale Miners Association lost US$30 000, a pistol and personal documents. “Mkandla left his valuables in a satchel in his car which was parked within the Gwanda District Club parking area and went for a meeting at around 10AM. When he returned to his vehicle at around 3PM he found the satchel which contained his valuables gone,” he said. Chief Insp Ndebele said investigations were underway but no arrests had been made. He urged members of the public to desist from carrying around large sums of money. He also urged owners of firearms to ensure that they keep them properly secured. “As police we always urge people to desist from carrying around large sums of money. People should deposit their money in banks and use plastic money as that is safer. By carrying around large sums of money people will be putting their lives at risk and they also risk losing their hard earned cash. “Members of the public who own firearms are urged to ensure they are properly secured at all times. A firearm should never be left unattended. When carrying it around it should be within arm’s reach or it should be left in a gun cabinet which is properly secure. In this case this pistol could now be in the wrong hands,” Chief Insp Ndebele said. Sources close to investigations said after realising that he had lost property, Mr Mkandla collapsed and was rushed to the Gwanda Provincial Hospital where he was treated and discharged. He reportedly raised the money from selling gold. – @DubeMatutu