The Chronicle Nduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor ZANU-PF Second Secretary and Vice President Kembo Mohadi yesterday said the ongoing restructuring exercise of Bulawayo province is well on course although there will be a need to extend its deadline to attend to all structures. VP Mohadi is in charge of the restructuring of Bulawayo province following the decision by President Emmerson Mnangagwa to dissolve the structure along with Harare province. His counterpart VP Constantino Chiwenga is in charge of the restructuring of Harare province. Speaking during a meeting to get an update from the teams on the ground led by Politburo member Cde Munyaradzi Machacha at the party’s Davies Hall in Bulawayo, VP Mohadi said the province had gone for too long with shambolic structures and disunity resulting in poor performance in elections. Referring to Cde Machacha’s update, VP Mohadi said: “He lamented that there were no cells in Bulawayo, I once (years ago) came here to verify structures and I reported that there was only one urban cell in Bulawayo and I was taken to task by guys here, you tore me to pieces and called me a sellout.” He said he was vindicated when the province performed badly in the elections. “We are going to reinvigorate the party by coming up with structures, so far I’m told that 104 structures have been done but I’m told that the target is that it should be 1 240 but we are very far from the target so it is indeed plausible that we extend it so that we can get the cells. “We can’t win an election if we don’t have the cells. I don’t know what has gone wrong. What is the problem? Zanu-PF has been there since 1957… it doesn’t matter whether it changed names to what is called Zanu-PF today but our political movement started long back,” said VP Mohadi. “We are still the same people, what happened, a mafikizolo has come and taken the people in Bulawayo and we have nothing. There must be something wrong, we should reflect on ourselves, we are not doing our work.” VP Mohadi acknowledged that Bulawayo was the hardest hit province in the country during the recent destructive demonstrations instigated by the opposition. He said people should not be swayed but emboldened and not deviate from the principles of the revolution that inspired the country’s war of liberation and subsequent Independence. “Let’s go and talk to the people, people will not come to Zanu-PF if we don’t talk to them, we have to engage them,” the VP said. VP Mohadi said the new dispensation was working towards achieving the country’s economic turnaround but the process would not happen overnight.  “When we say this economy will achieve middle income status by 2030, we mean it and we have already put things in place,” he said. VP Mohadi reiterated the Government’s call for investors to come into the country based on a mutually beneficial relationship. The Vice President said the devolution of power implemented by the Government would empower provinces in planning for their respective development. “You are going to have your provincial councils, you will have to come up with your priorities towards your development. If you develop then the whole country develops,” said VP Mohadi. “Let us not be intimidated by smoke screens, you have to be brave otherwise we would not have been able to liberate this country”. The meeting was attended by senior party members including Secretary for Administration Dr Obert Mpofu, deputy commissar Cde Omega Hungwe, deputy youth affairs secretary Cde Lewis Matutu, Cdes David Parirenyatwa, Mike Bimha, Angeline Masuku and others.