The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter URBAN Grooves music duo, Extra Large, announced their return a fortnight ago with the release of a four-track EP (Extended Play). Titled Daira Phone, the EP, according to the duo of Jimmy Mangezi and Norman Manwere, is meant to prepare fans for a full album which they will drop in September. The duo that last dominated the music scene in 2016 with their hit Murudo that features Nox and Oskid, had become less visible after the emergence of Zimdancehall. Last year, they tried to comeback with the release of a single – Huya Undichukuchire that featured Roki. However, Roki dominated in the song that was accompanied by a quality video and it ended up being more of his comeback song. Jimmy said they never left the music industry but had been taking their time to produce quality music that will be competitive. “We never stopped making music. We were just waiting for the right time to release an album. Since music is evolving, we took note of the need to change our sound so this consumed most of our time as we have been working on many different sounds such as dancehall, afro-pop and mbira.” He said the EP that is available on YouTube and Sound Cloud has collaborations with talented artistes like Gary Tight, Maggikal, Oskid and Prelacy. “This EP is a teaser for fans who have been yearning for Extra Large music. We want them to have something to listen to in the meantime while we polish our album which we’re planning to release in September.” Jimmy said the tracks on the EP would be included on the upcoming album. “With the upcoming album, we experimented with a lot of sounds. We fused dancehall and afro Pop so as to appeal to the younger audience as well as the mature audience.” On the new album, Jimmy said they had partnered with the likes of ExQ, Trevor Dongo and Roki. “Collaborating with the likes of Roki, ExQ and Trevor Dongo was very important as we come from the same era of music which is urban grooves music. We have a great chemistry which works wonders when producing music,” he said.