The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu/Mkhululi Ncube, Showbiz Correspondents RHUMBA musician Ndux Junior says it is high time he celebrates his late father Nduna Malaba’s (Ndux Malax) life and music through a concert that will be held at their rural home of Kezi, Matabeleland South province, in August. For Ndux Junior, this is the year he will fulfill a promise he made to fans of honouring his father who died 23 years ago on March 6. “We’ve been promising our fans a memorial gala for my late father for some time now. We’ve seen such happening in other places where legends are remembered and celebrated with many artistes coming together to commemorate them. “We want to do it (commemoration) this year and it’s on the cards, as long as God keeps us alive. Perhaps we’ll hold it in August,” said Ndux Junior. He said he has spoken to some artistes who have agreed to be part of the gig. If all goes according to plan, the memorial concert will coincide with Ndux Junior’s launch of his fifth studio album titled Kukhon’ongizwayo that is being minted in South Africa. “There’s an album that’s lined up for release in August. This album will be better than the previous ones in terms of composition. It’ll be more mature. I want my music to grow and as I get older, my lyrics should be more meaningful.” Explaining the album’s title, Ndux Junior said: “Literally speaking, the album title means ‘Is there someone hearing me’. From when I started this music business, there’re people who’ve heard and followed my career, but there’re others who haven’t, even after all these years. “So I’m targeting these (new listeners) at the same time.” His last album, La Esiyakhona, was released in 2017. It saw him step out of his father’s shadow. Last year was a relatively quiet one with Ndux focusing mostly on collaborations, something that birthed Ezinkulu ZaseKezi which had himself, Themba “Boyoyo” Mathe and Dumezweni Mazilankatha. The three produced an album called Balansa Tsotsi. “Last year, I contacted Themba and asked if he was releasing any new material and he said no. I did the same with Dumezweni and he said he wasn’t. Then I came up with the idea of doing a collaboration (Ezinkulu ZaseKezi) with all three of us,” said Ndux Junior. He said collaborations were far and in-between among Rhumba artistes hence he embarked on the project to bring unity within the genre. “The reason we did this was to bring unity among us as artistes and also to help grow and improve the genre. We wanted to show the up-and-coming artistes that although the music business is a competition, fans love to see their favourite artistes come together through such collaborations.” True to his word, fans loved their offering, something which surprised the trio. “People surprised us with the reception they gave the single. They liked it so much and even requested that we do a live show,” Ndux Junior said. “Collaborations help boost sales of an album because each artiste’s fans will buy the album out of interest of hearing what we’d have cooked up.” Asked why rhumba artistes mostly perform in rural areas, Ndux Junior said it is because their fan base is there. “In the Rhumba genre, the people who live in the cities love our music, but don’t want to pay to watch us. They’ve this mentality that what they can pay for is something that’s foreign. “For people in the rural areas however, this is their music; it speaks to their culture and spirituality. It becomes easy for us as artistes to do shows there because that’s where our bread is buttered,” explained Ndux Junior. Off music, Ndux Junior is now into gold buying and owns two cocktail bars in Kezi. “When I completed my O’levels, I told myself that I didn’t want to be employed. I’d rather own a business and earn my own money. I’ve got two cocktail bars in Kezi’s Tshelanyemba and Sigangatsha areas and I’m also into the buying of gold from artisanal miners.”