The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter
A MAN from Hwange who allegedly fatally struck his neighbour with an iron bar 10 years ago during New Year celebrations following a dispute over a missing identity card, has appeared in court. Worried Ncube (33) allegedly fatally attacked Godfrey Tshuma (28) of Tshingababili in Plumtree in January 2009 after he was accused of stealing an identity card belonging to the deceased. Ncube yesterday appeared before Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Maxwell Takuva facing a murder charge in connection with the death of Tshuma. Prosecuting, Ms Chiedza Muhwandavaka said on January in 2009 at around 7PM, Tshuma went to Moses Basuthu’s homestead at Thornwood West in Colleen Bawn for New Year celebrations. An hour later, Ncube and his cousins proceeded to the same homestead where they met the deceased. “The accused person later left the homestead leaving the deceased and others at the celebration party. Hours later, the host of the party ran out of fuel to run his generator and he switched off the radio prompting the revellers to leave the place,” said Ms Muhwandavaka. Tshuma and his friends went to neighbouring Chinden Compound where they intended to continue with their New Year celebrations. “On arrival at Chinden Compound, Tshuma noticed that his identity card was missing from his pocket. He returned to Basuthu’s homestead to look for it and failed to find it,” said Ms Muhwandavaka. Tshuma went to the accused person’s homestead and confronted him over his missing identity card. Ncube denied stealing the identity card and an altercation ensued between the two men. The accused person allegedly picked an iron bar and struck Tshuma once on the forehead and he fell down and died on the spot. A report was made to the police leading to Ncube’s arrest. Ncube, through his lawyer, Mr Abednico Ndebele of Mathonsi Ncube Law Chambers, said he acted in self defence after he was provoked by the deceased. He told the court that Tshuma stormed his bedroom while he was sleeping and attacked him. Ncube, however, denied striking the deceased with an iron bar, saying he only punched him with a fist resulting in him falling headlong and hitting against a hard surface. “I hit him with my fist on the forehead and he staggered and collapsed. I tried to resuscitate him by pouring water on him but it didn’t work,” said Ncube.—@mashnets