The Chronicle Business Reporter THE Minister of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry, Prisca Mupfumira, says improved use of appropriate technologies along the agricultural value chain could assist the country to enhance food security and alleviate complex poverty-related social ills. In her speech during the recent 4th Session of the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA 4) in Nairobi, Kenya, the minister acknowledged the world was facing a wide range of environmental challenges such as climate change since the turn of the century. In view of these, Minister Mupfumira said Zimbabwe recognises the need for a paradigm shift in the way the country does business. “As we may all be aware, the world’s poor depend on natural resources for their livelihoods, leading to over-exploitation and hence unsustainable utilisation of the same. In order to lessen over-exploitation, it is imperative to intensify agricultural productivity through use of improved and appropriate technologies at every stage of the agricultural value chain,” she said. “I, therefore, call upon development partners and other relevant stakeholders to partner Zimbabwe in enhancing sustainable agricultural productivity and food security in order to manage the delicate and complex poverty-environment nexus.” In order to embrace life cycle approaches and address one of our key environmental challenges of unsustainable solid waste management, Minister Mupfumira briefed the gathering on how Zimbabwe has declared a one-day-per-month Clean-Up Programme to encourage all citizens to practise sustainable waste management and create a clean, safe and healthy environment as espoused in Section 73 of the country’s constitution. She said wildlife and forest conservation and protection were also a priority for the Government. “We believe the sustainable management of these inseparable natural resources must benefit and improve the livelihoods of local communities,” she said. Recently, Zimbabwe reviewed its national forest policy and the world-renowned Communal Areas Management Programme for Indigenous Resources (Campfire) programme with the triple objectives of increasing community participation, conservation of these resources and ultimately enhancing benefits that accrue to communities. “As a result of sound wildlife and forest management practices, Zimbabwe has enhanced its tourism attractiveness, leading to significant growth in tourist arrivals in the country in recent years,” said Minister Mupfumira. She said Zimbabwe will collaborate with the international community in the generation and up-scaling of innovative solutions to environmental challenges. The minister, however, stressed the need for striking a balance between innovative solutions to environmental challenges, and sustainable consumption and production.