The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Matabeleland North joint primary and secondary schools inter-district track and field athletics competitions that was supposed to be held at Mosi-oa-Tunya High School in Victoria Falls early next week have been moved forward to the end of next week. The meet was to be held on Tuesday and Wednesday but according to the host school headmaster Ronald Sibanda, they have now decided to hold the event on Thursday and Friday so as to allow athletes enough time to rest over the weekend before attending classes. “All is in place now to welcome our colleagues from other districts and even if the competition dates were not moved I am certain we were going to have a successful gathering,” said Sibanda. He said they have already asked districts to send through a list of their athletes and officials who will be coming to the resort town, adding that Bubi district whose Nash chairperson is Somvubu High School headmaster, Khumbulani Sibanda, have already paid for their accommodation at a lodge in town. “Various committees have been set up in preparation for this major event on our calendar. It is prudent to highlight that the president of the National Association of School Heads Cynthia Khumalo heads our marketing committee which is critical in bringing various stakeholders on board,” said Sibanda. Khumalo is also the National Association of Primary School Heads (Naph) president. Sibanda assured participating districts that his school has a standard track field which is key for an event of this magnitude. “We are a proud school as we have a standard athletics field that can even play host not only to schools competition but even international athletics meetings. We have produced athletes like Dickson Kapandura who have represented the country as far as the Youth Olympics and we want more of such athletes to come out of this track,” said Sibanda. Matabeleland North has seven districts, Bubi, Nkayi, Umguza, Tsholotsho, Binga, Lupane and Hwange. After the provincial finals, the province will select a team for the national finals set for Kwekwe later this month.