The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
ZANU-PF yesterday officially set in motion it’s campaign to drum up support for Cde Kidwell Mujuru in the Ward 28 local authority elections set for March 30 in Bulawayo. The campaign was launched in Cowdray Park with the party’s national Deputy National Commissar Cde Omega Hungwe and Politburo members Cdes Angeline Masuku and Absolom Skhosana as well as Bulawayo provincial secretary for information and publicity Cde Christopher Sibanda in attendance. Scores of party members from other wards attended the campaign launch to show their support for Cde Mujuru ahead of the elections. Cde Hungwe called on party members to rally behind Cde Mujuru and members in the ward so that the party wins the election resoundingly. “Let’s all rally behind Cde Mujuru and his team in the Ward and let’s remember that we’re doing it for the party. If Cde Mujuru wins, the party has won. It’s therefore important for all of us to be part of the campaign because we’re working for our party. “Let’s not give opposition parties the chance to win. People in this ward deserve to be represented by Zanu-PF because we put development and people’s interests first. Let’s all play our roles to make the party win,” said Cde Hungwe. She urged party members to campaign peacefully. The party set up groups to campaign for Cde Mujuru, while regalia and campaign material were distributed to party members. Eighteen candidates successfully lodged their papers at the Nomination Court which sat at the council chambers about two weeks ago, with Zanu-PF fielding one candidate, Cde Mujuru, while the MDC Alliance fielded two candidates Alderman Collet Ndhlovu and Ms Nomagugu Mloyi. Other candidates include Mejury Dube from the United Democratic Alliance (UDA), Gumpo Flora of MDC-T, Albert Mashayanyika of the National Constitutional Assembly, Polite Ncube of ZEFF, Nokuthula Ndlovu of Zapu, Nicholas Ngwenya of ZIPP, Nkosikhona Nyoni of MRP, Buhle Nzima of NPF and six independent candidates. The seat fell vacant following the death in December last year of MDC Alliance councillor Happyson Ncube who had defeated Ald Ndlovu in primary polls before emerging victorious in the July 30 general elections. – @pamelashumba1