The Chronicle Zvamaida Murwira, Harare Bureau
CHEGUTU West Member of the National Assembly, Cde Dexter Nduna (Zanu-PF) and Norton legislator Mr Temba Mliswa (Independent) yesterday apologised to the Speaker of the National Assembly, Advocate Jacob Mudenda, for their disorderly conduct during a meeting of the Portfolio Committee of Mines and Mining Development last month. Cde Nduna and Mr Mliswa were involved in a heated exchange during an altercation where they traded accusations of financial impropriety. The altercation stemmed from allegations that Mr Mliswa and three other legislators had demanded $400 000 bribe from a local businessman. This saw Parliament’s Standing Rules and Orders Committee constituting a Privileges committee to look into the allegations. During the exchanges, Mr Mliswa implicated Adv Mudenda’s name when he accused Cde Nduna of abusing funds for Zimbabwe National Road Administration, while Cde Nduna denied and made threats saying he had killed many people some of whom he did not recall. In yesterday’s sitting, Cde Nduna tendered an apology to the Speaker of the National Assembly Adv Jacob Mudenda for his conduct, saying he had since extended the same to President Mnangagwa. “When you are in a fight, there is no formula, you use a hoe, pick and a wheelbarrow or anything at your disposal,” he said. “I want to profusely apologise for my words. I did not mean anything that I meant. I take back my words. “I want to be treated in the same way I am presenting this apology so that the decorum of Parliament can be withheld.” Cde Nduna said he was sorry to Parliament and his party Zanu-PF. “I make no excuse for the dishonourable behaviour I displayed on the day in question and the unpalatable utterances that I made in the heat of the moment, save to say that I unconditionally apologise,” he said. “On hindsight, it is clear to me I could have reacted differently even in the wake of provocation which had the effect of maligning my character and reputation. “I could have chosen a more dignified response to the aspersion cast on my character and standing that would ultimately protect my reputation, the name of my party Zanu-PF and the integrity of the institution of Parliament.” On the other hand, Mr Mliswa said he was sorry for “mistakenly and erroneously” making accusations against Adv Mudenda. “I, therefore, sincerely apologise to Hon Speaker Mudenda for the attack on his person and credibility and regret the outburst thereof,” he said. “Hon Mudenda is a person I hold in high regard and has a great sense of esteem for the dogmatic approach and ethical manner in which he executes his duty. “So great is the respect and confidence I have for his professionalism and efficiency that I seconded him as Speaker of National Assembly for the Ninth Parliament, a vote of confidence that I do not take lightly. I look upon Hon Mudenda as a father figure.”