The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS are planning to scrap allowances for executive members on match days and use the funds towards easing the burden on junior teams. Last season, three members of the executive committee, treasurer Donald Ndebele, secretary-general Israel Moyo and committee member Wisdom Mabhena, each got $60 whenever they were on duty after Highlanders’ home games. This means that per game, Highlanders officials took home $180, which translates to $3060 for the 17 home games. For a debt-ridden club, which also has the responsibility of bankrolling their juniors, the Under-14s, Under-16s, Under-18s and the First Division One Soccer League side Bosso 90, the allowances given to club officials can go a long way in assisting their juniors. Highlanders officials have on match days been seen monitoring proceedings at the gates which are manned by PSL officers, police, private security and of late, bouncers that were hired by the league on behalf of the clubs. Questions have in the past been raised as to why the Bosso officials flood the gates, when the club has a fully-fledged secretariat that is employed to carry out club duties. Highlanders chairman Kenneth Mhlophe said: “Every dollar counts and as executive members we are here to serve the club. We are doing so to the best of our abilities to make sure that this great institution succeeds. The club has been paying executive members on duty for a long time and the guys are not at fault because that’s how the system has always been. However, I see nothing wrong with revising this mechanism so that we save every dollar. Remember, we volunteered to serve the club which means we must assist our club. If my colleagues agree to it, then that will be good for the club.” During the week, PSL held an all stakeholders meeting at Barbourfields Stadium and among the complaints that were raised by those who man the gates, PSL officers, police, private security and bouncers was that club officials are guilty of letting unaccredited people into the stadium for free. “One of the major obstacles we face at the gates is that officials are the ones who come to us and instruct us to let in people who don’t have PSL accreditation cards. Some are said to be former players, former club officials, wives or spouses of players. They (club) officials are equally guilty of causing leakages at the gates,” said an official who works at the gates. The PSL, following a resolution made by the league’s board of governors has instructed stadium security to allow only accredited people for free into the stadium. Clubs have been reminded to apply for accreditation of their officials. — @ZililoR