The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S top seeded player, Thabo Ncube, powered his way to the semi-finals of the International Tennis Federation (ITF) tournament after beating Belgian Alexander Stokbroekx 6-3, 3-6, 6-2 at Bulawayo Country Club yesterday. The United States of America (USA)-based Ncube will now come up against South African Tatenda Mutetwa to battle for a berth in the final. Mutetwa dismissed Canadian Ghouse Ali Faisal 6-0,6-2 in his quarter-final tie. Ncube was joined by his countryman Ethen Sibanda in the semi-finals. Sibanda beat Bastian Weststrate from the Netherlands 6-1, 2-6, 6-3 to set up a semi-final tie with Muntingh Hamman from South Africa. The South African ejected Zimbabwean Tinashe Taruberekera 6-3, 1-6, 6-2. The 17-year-old Ncube, who trains with Pro World Tennis Academy in the USA, said the quarter-final tie was challenging and he had to keep his cool to win. “I’m looking forward to the semi-finals tomorrow (today). Playing in the USA has exposed me to tougher opponents. On top of everything I believe that wherever you are, you just need to work hard and now I’m almost in the final so I have to keep my cool and see how it goes,” said Ncube. Sibanda, who is participating in the ITF games for the second time, believes the four remaining players in the competition have what it takes to win the event. “In case I win in the semis, I don’t mind who I play in the final because both Tatenda (Mutetwa) and Thabo (Ncube) are fantastic players. The fact that we’ve reached this stage says a lot and I’m happy to be in the semis for the first time. To reach the finals will be an icing on a cake,” said Sibanda. In the girls’ category, the only Zimbabwean who made it to the quarter-finals Claire Machisa succumbed 3-6, 1-6 to South African Jessica Portwig, who will now face Tshegofatso Tsiang from Botswana. Tsiang knocked out Victoria Sasinka from the USA 6-4, 6-3. The other semi-final tie in the girls’ category pits Lauren Cooper from the USA and her compatriot Dakota Fordham. — @DecoDecent2