The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara/Sukulwenkosi Dube, Chronicle Reporters THE First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa yesterday urged women in Bulawayo and Matabeleland South to enhance their knowledge of inheritance law and property rights so that they are not disinherited when their husbands die. Amai Mnangagwa came up with the programme, which she is taking to all the country’s provinces, after realising that relatives cheated women out of their inheritance following the deaths of their husbands. Most women lost out because they were not aware of laws safeguarding their rights while others did not know who to approach. Scores of women turned up for the programme at Bulawayo’s Large City Hall. In a speech read on her behalf by Deputy Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Cde Jennifer Mhlanga, the First Lady said she was moved by the plight of widows and children who are losing their property after the death of their husbands or parents to initiate the programme. “A lot of women in our country are not knowledgeable enough about inheritance and property rights issues after their spouses pass on. They are losing a lot of wealth and properties they are entitled to due to lack of knowledge. I have come today to meet you so that we can share the knowledge with you as you also get a chance to ask questions on this subject,” she said. “The engagement is to find common ground and possible points for interventions to mitigate the crisis faced by women and children in as far as rights to inheritance and property rights are concerned and also to empower them through impartation of knowledge.” Bulawayo Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Cde Judith Ncube hailed the First Lady for the programme, saying it would leave a lot of women empowered and enlightened. “We are truly grateful to the mother of the nation, her Excellency umama uMnangagwa for the wisdom that she has seen fit to call for a gathering of women to impart knowledge that pertains to their rights during difficult times of the passing on of their spouses. “This is a time when women find themselves vulnerable to abuse losing all that they have worked hard for as a family when predators take an interest in the estate of their spouse,” said Cde Ncube. She said many women have come to her office in tears saying they are destitute due to legal complications concerning deceased’s estates and she hoped that the engagement would enlighten them. Master of the High Court, Mr Eldard Mutasa, told the women that the law says a deceased’s estate must be registered within 14 days. He said the tendency by some spouses or relatives to hide some assets and not register them was illegal and attracted a prison sentence of one year or a fine. The participants asked various questions regarding inheritance particularly issues to do with recognition of children born out of wedlock. In Gwanda, Matabeleland South Province the First Lady, again represented by Cde Mhlanga said a number of widows were losing their properties in inheritance disputes due to lack of knowledge of the law. Widows and widowers from throughout the province gathered for the programme. “We have gathered here today to interface on the inheritance and property rights issues that are occurring among us in the country. This platform has been created specifically for you to be educated, to engage you and to come up with solutions which are sustainable,” she said. Speaking at the same occasion Matabeleland South Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Cde Abednico Ncube applauded the First Lady for initiating the programme. “We thank our mother the First Lady Amai Auxilia Mnangagwa for initiating this programme and bringing it to Matabeleland South Province. Issues of inheritance remain a problem and we are happy that Government is working towards addressing them. It’s unfortunate that due to our customs and tradition at times we have seen widowers and widows being subjected to extreme abuse and suffering because of issues of inheritance after losing their spouses,” he said. Senior Principal Director in the Office of the President and Cabinet, Ambassador Mary Mubi urged members of the public to study existing laws in order to know their rights and areas that need improvements. She urged churches, political parties and other fraternities to create forums where they could discuss issues of inheritance as they were pertinent. Also speaking at the occasion, Mr Mutasa, urged widows to ensure that they were not robbed of their inheritance especially during the funeral process. He said some relatives had a tendency of taking advantage of the vulnerability of widows to defraud them of their inheritance. Mr Charles Manhiri acting director for constitutional and parliamentary affairs in the Ministry of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs took the gathering through inheritance law. – @DubeMatutu