The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS are set to parade the team that will do duty for them in the 2019 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season during a friendly match against Chapungu at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow. The encounter will give Bosso followers a glimpse of how their team will look like when the season kicks off on March 30. Being the last weekend before the season starts, the clash with Chapungu is Highlanders’ last competitive preparatory game before heading to Harare to face Black Rhinos in their season opener. “You want to watch Highlanders FC for as little as RTGS$3? Worry less! The cheapest match of the season is on this Saturday at Barbourfields Stadium. We host Chapungu FC as we wrap up our preparations for the 2019 @CastleLagerPSL season. Don’t miss out,” wrote Highlanders on their official Twitter page. In their build-up to the season, Highlanders have played two training games they won against Green Fuel in Chiredzi and a Beitbridge Select side in the border town. Bosso were thrashed 4-0 by Chicken Inn in another friendly and went down 1-0 to Hwange in a match they reportedly dominated at the Colliery Stadium last week. Highlanders fielded a strong side in Hwange after their senior players returned from a three-week strike over non-payment of salaries. However, Bosso will be without Prince Dube and Mbongeni Ndlovu for tomorrow’s game, as the pair is doing duty for the Young Warriors against Mozambique in Maputo this afternoon. Chapungu, who took four out of six points from Highlanders last season, are looking forward to the clash, with coach Rodwell Dhlakama saying the game will give him an indication of the shape of his team. “We’ve been training and shall be able to talk about how our pre-season programme went after our game against Highlanders. We are looking forward to the game, which will give us a clearer picture of what to expect. We don’t want to spend the better part of the season fighting relegation; we want to effectively compete and if there are things to win, we want them,” said Dhlakama. He revealed that they retained their 2018 squad, with midfielder Gracious Muleya being their only signing for the season. Muleya joins Chapungu from Bulawayo Chiefs. — @ZililoR