The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter AMBITIOUS Castle Lager Premier Soccer League side Chicken Inn received a major boost ahead of the start of the 2019 season when Nyaradzo Life Assurance gave the club a bus. Chicken Inn becomes the fifth PSL club after Highlanders, Dynamos, Caps United and Chapungu to get a bus from Nyaradzo. Nyaradzo join Bonvie Medical Aid, Blackshark and Zibuko Capital in sponsoring Chicken Inn. Nyaradzo general manager Tendayi Kanjanda said Chicken Inn also stands to cash in on the deal by distributing their products. “We’ve been in discussions with Chicken Inn for some time and we thank other sponsors who have been supporting Chicken Inn. It is our desire and pleasure to see our teams doing well. We decided to come up with a product to allow us to sponsor teams and that product is called Scorepack. This product is done in a way to empower the clubs. Chicken Inn will distribute the product and get commission,” said Kanjanda. “We’re going to be providing a team bus so that the team is able to fulfill its games. We’re in the process of buying the bus for Chicken Inn and have made all the required applications to get forex to get the bus. In the meantime, because we’ve a huge transport fleet, transport will be provided for their league games. Once we secure the new bus, we will do the proper handover.” The partnership with Nyaradzo will ease the cost of hiring transport for matches. Chicken Inn, who were formed in 2004 and won the Castle Lager Premiership title in 2015, assured Nyaradzo that their investment is safe and said they were eying more corporate partnerships. “Along the way we’ve claimed the scalps of the so-called big giants. Over the years, we’ve been exporting players as we produce the cream in Zimbabwean football. In essence we’re a departure lounge as we have seen players going on to showcase their talent outside the country. Right now we have four, Kuda Mahachi, Teenage Hadebe, Divine Lunga and Danny Phiri, former Chicken Inn players in the Warriors’ squad and we are proud of it,” said Chicken Inn chairman Juta Tshuma. “People talk of big teams in terms of support base; we talk about a large customer base. We have brand visibility, good corporate governance and respect for contracts we sign with players and sponsors. “You’re (Chicken Inn sponsors) indeed in safe hands by signing with us. I’m aware corporates take time to decide who to sign with. We want to assure our present and would be sponsors that when you come to us, you dive into a swimming pool with warm water and enjoy brand visibility. For those corporates yet to decide, we’re inviting you to come on board,” he said. – @ZililoR