The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent CANDIDATES contesting the Bulawayo Ward 28 by-election have expressed optimism that they will win the poll today. Campaigning for the hotly contested by-election ended at midnight on Thursday. According to the Electoral Act, all political parties and independent candidates should cease their campaigns 24 hours before an election. The Ward 28 post fell vacant last year in December following the death of MDC-Alliance councillor, Hapson Ncube. Candidates from the main political parties Zanu-PF and the MDC Alliance yesterday said they have done all the ground work that would propel them to victory. Zanu-PF candidate, Cde Kidwell Mujuru said he is confident of defeating his 15 opponents. “We are wrapping up our campaign and I’m confident that residents will vote for Zanu-PF represented by me. We have communicated our message to the residents which speaks to addressing their problems. We even had Vice President Kembo Mohadi addressing a rally in Cowdray Park last Friday. VP Mohadi’s rally showed how committed the party is to addressing problems at grass roots levels,” said Cde Mujuru. He said Zanu-PF is committed to improving service delivery in Cowdray Park and residents should vote for the party. MDC Alliance’s candidate Alderman Collet Ndlovu said he was worried that his party fielded two candidates for the by-election. Ald Ndlovu and Ms Nomagugu Mloyi are the MDC Alliance candidates for the by-election. “I think the issue of the party fielding double candidates will affect us as a party. The party has delayed in clarifying to the people who the official candidate is. Today (yesterday) evening that’s when the party will hold a ward meeting to announce the official candidate,” said Ald Ndlovu. He said the residents have accepted his service delivery messages as he wants to continue from where he left. Ms Mloyi, who was supposed to have withdrawn her candidature after losing the primary to Ald Ndlovu, said she was satisfied with how she has canvassed for votes. She said the by-election would definitely land her the councillor post. “The people have promised to vote for me, I don’t think I will win, I’m winning. The voters have said they want me to be their councillor. I’m not even worried that we are two candidates from the same party,” Ms Mloyi said. Bulawayo Provincial Elections Officer Mr Innocent Ncube said the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission is satisfied with how the campaigns were conducted as no violence was recorded. − @nqotshili