The Chronicle Felex Share, Harare Bureau
THE national clean up exercise being done on the first Friday of each calendar month following a declaration by President Mnangagwa has heightened the country’s levels of hygiene and cleanliness, Vice President Constantino Chiwenga has said. Speaking during joint commemorations to mark Africa Environment Day, Wangari Maathai Day, World Wildlife Day and National Clean-up Day at Lake Chivero near Harare yesterday, VP Chiwenga said the clean up campaign was a feat which should be appreciated by every Zimbabwean. “May I point out that the declaration of a National Clean-up Day is in tandem with a constitutional requirement for providing a clean, safe and healthy environment for our people, flora and fauna,” he said. “Our country, just like our African brothers and sisters, needs to quickly appreciate the importance of a safe and clean environment so that we can address the current environmental challenges such as loss of biodiversity, climate change, land degradation, desertification, deforestation, waste management, as well as water and air pollution.” The National Clean up Day is part of Government’s efforts of ensuring the country has sustainable environment management and waste disposal systems. VP Chiwenga said pollution at Lake Chivero had been reduced because of various initiatives such as environmental awareness. “Practicing proper hygiene and sanitation in Harare and its dormitory towns has reduced pollution in Lake Chivero, which is our mainstay for providing water for domestic and industrial consumption, as well as recreation,” he said. “Our major challenge as a continent is deforestation and environmental degradation. It is, therefore, most befitting that we have gathered at the shores of Lake Chivero today (yesterday) for the joint commemorations. “In addition to the National Clean-up Day and the Africa Environment Day, the country and continent should remain alive to the immense and dedicated contributions of the late Professor Wangari Maathai towards promoting environmental conversation and sustainable development in Africa, hence the Wangari Maathai Day.” VP Chiwenga paid tribute to President Mnangagwa for “living true to your word on the need for a clean, safe and healthy environment for our country”. “The initiative is mutually benefiting in that it adds value to our livelihoods, as much as it enriches the environment, all culminating into a sustainable future,” he said. “To the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Management, I say please keep the fire burning, as long as you do not start veld fires.”