The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent ZANU-PF yesterday said the dissolution of the party’s structures in Bulawayo and Harare is aimed at strengthening them to address problems that have resulted in the party perennially losing elections in the two provinces. Last week, Zanu-PF First Secretary and President Cde Mnangagwa dissolved all the party’s structures in Bulawayo and Harare. The party announced that further communication on the issue would be released in due course. In an interview yesterday, the party’s Secretary for Administration, Cde Obert Mpofu, said Vice President Kembo Mohadi has been assigned to oversee structures in Bulawayo while Vice President Dr Constantino Chiwenga is superintending over the party’s affairs in Harare. He said President Mnangagwa’s deployment of his two deputies shows the party’s seriousness in rebuilding its structures. “The party has always performed badly in Bulawayo and Harare in national elections. That is why we have one or two seats in the two provinces. “The party is looking at all the operations in all provinces with a view to strengthening  them. That’s why you have these initiatives headed by the Vice Presidents. It shows the seriousness with which the party considers structures throughout the country,” Cde Mpofu said. In the harmonised elections held last year, Zanu-PF only claimed one seat each in both Bulawayo and Harare. Cde Mpofu said he cannot comment on the assignments of Cde Mohadi and Dr Chiwenga in the provinces where they have been  deployed. Prior to dissolving structures in Bulawayo, Cde Mpofu was assigned to address problems affecting the province. He said money, lies and gossip were weakening the party’s structures in the province. Cde Mpofu had to censure party members who were angling for the provincial chairman’s post following the death of national hero and Zanu-PF provincial chairman Professor Callistus Ndlovu. Zanu-PF is set to roll out a nationwide restructuring exercise to strengthen the party’s grassroots structures. – @nqotshili