The Chronicle Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent A STORM is brewing at Masvingo City Council over US$43 000 paid by Nyaradzo Life Assurance Company for the resurfacing of a 100-metre road stretch, on behalf of the local authority, in 2016. The matter, which preoccupied a full council meeting on Monday evening, threatened to divide the city’s management as the treasury admitted that council received the money but the engineering department had not done anything on the ground, three years on. Sometime in March 2016, Nyaradzo Life Assurance Company offered to resurface the road leading to its offices from Bradben Street. The company was asked to pay US$43 000 for the project. Ward 10 Councillor Sengerai Manyanga told the meeting that there were concerns over the non-implementation of the project and the City Fathers wanted answers why it had taken so long. “We are told the company had offered to do the project itself since it has its own engineers but council refused. Can you furnish us with details on what transpired and when do you think the project will be done?” asked Clr Manyanga. Ward 9 Clr Against Chiteme also voiced his concern over the delay and accused council management of discouraging investment into the city and yet it had no capacity of tackling all its intended projects. “I think our attitude as council, especially our management, drives away investors. How can a funded project take this long to implement? We should be serious about these things as we are hearing that the company is considering not paying service charges over the issue,” said Clr Chiteme. City Engineer Mr Tawanda Gozo cited the rains as the main reason behind the delay to start the project and assured the councillors that the project would take off soon. “It is true Nyaradzo has paid for the road project but efforts to work on the project have been affected by the rains. Every time we intended to start the project, we were disturbed by the rains. However, the project will be done soon,” said Eng Gozo. — @walterbmswazie2