The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE National Soccer Supporters’ Association (ZNSSA) interim Bulawayo wing chairman, Carlmarx Nkomo, says registration for fans interested in travelling for the Warriors’ crunch Afcon qualifier against Congo has opened. Zimbabwe top Group G and host Congo in their final must-win qualifier at the National Sports Stadium on March 24. A point stands in the way of Zimbabwe’s qualification heading into the game, as they top Group G with eight points from five games. The Warriors are a point ahead of second-placed Liberia, who take on third-placed DR Congo, who are on six points. It’s an open group with Congo, who are on five points, still mathematically in the race to qualify, as the top two sides will go through to the Afcon finals to be held in Egypt. Nkomo is confident that the Warriors will sail through and called on supporters to rally behind the squad. “Zimbabwe is close to qualifying and these Warriors need our support to do it. The players have done their part to get us closer to qualifying for Egypt and our appeal as the Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters’ Association is to have supporters travelling from all corners of the country,” said Nkomo. “For those in Bulawayo willing to attend the game and are having challenges in buying tickets online, they can contact us, register to travel for the trip and we can also assist by securing tickets for them. For the return trip to Harare as well as a ticket for the rest of the ground, we have set the price at RTGS $70. Those interested can either contact me on 0773267040 or our interim secretary-general Trust Jim on 0773383703,” he said. He said they are also making plans to have the Warriors’ replica Umbro jerseys available to the supporters once they arrive. “Our colleagues in Harare are working closely with Zifa so that once the jerseys arrive some are reserved for supporters travelling for the game. Zifa hasn’t released the prices for the replicas and those travelling can indicate if they want the T-shirts,” Nkomo said. Last week, Warriors’ coach Sunday Chidzambwa named a 28-member provisional squad. The Lamontville Golden Arrows’ trio of midfielder Danny Phiri, left-back Divine Lunga and striker Knox Mutizwa are part of the squad. Germany-based Kelvin Lunga, the son of former Warriors’ bustling striker, Max Lunga, received his first national team call-up while former Tsholotsho FC central midfielder Butholezwe Ncube, who plays for Durban side AmaZulu got an opportunity to add his national team caps. Other familiar faces that have been called up include Orlando Pirates’ Kudakwashe Mahachi, skipper Knowledge Musona and Evans Rusike. Belgium-based Marvelous Nakamba has been ruled out of the Congo tie due to an injury. Warriors provisional squad: Goalkeepers: -George Chigova (Polokwane City, South Africa) -Edmore Sibanda (Witbank Spurs, South Africa) -Petros Mhari (FC Platinum) Defenders: -Divine Lunga (Lamontville Golden Arrows, South Africa) -Marshall Munetsi (Orlando Pirates, South Africa) -Teenage Hadebe (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa) -Alec Mudimu (CEFN Druids, Wales) -Tendayi Darikwa (Nottingham Forest, England) -Jimmy Dzingai (Power Dynamos, Zambia) -Ronald Pfumbidzai (Bloemfontein Celtic, South Africa) -Godknows Murwira (FC Platinum) Midfielders: -Tafadzwa Kutinyu (Azam, Tanzania) -Richard Hachiro (Herentals) -Marvelous Nakamba (Club Brugge KV, Belgium) -Kudakwashe Mahachi (Orlando Pirates, South Africa) -Leeroy Mavunga (Yadah Stars) -Knowledge Musona (KSC Lokeren Oost-Vlaanderen (Belgium) -Ovidy Karuru, Butholezwe Ncube and Talent Chawapihwa (all Amazulu, South Africa) -Kelvin Lunga (SV Rodinghausen, Germany) -Khama Billiat (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa)- Danny Phiri (Lamontville Golden Arrows, South Africa) Strikers: -Tinotenda Kadewere (Le Havre AC, France) -Evans Rusike (SuperSport United, South Africa) -Admiral Muskwe (Leicester City, England) -Knox Mutizwa (Golden Arrows) -Abbas Amidu (Arar, Saudi Arabia). — @ZililoR.