The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter FC PLATINUM are hoping to bow out of the Caf Champions League group stages in style when they take on continental title holders Esperance at Barbourfields Stadium this afternoon. The platinum miners will be playing for pride as they have been knocked out of the tournament.  They sit at the bottom of the table with two points from five games. FC Platinum drew 0-0 against Orlando Pirates in their first group match, lost 2-0 to Esperance, then lost home and away to Horoya before drawing 2-2 away to Pirates. The Tunisian giants, who touched down at Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo International Airport yesterday morning aboard an intimidating Lockheed C-130 Hercules, an American four-engine turboprop military transport aircraft, have already qualified for the next stage of the competition. FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza refused to apply the “dead rubber” tag to today’s encounter, saying they are heading into the game to get a win. “The mentality is the same, every time we prepare for a game we prepare to win. We want to end on a high and win the game,” said Mapeza. The Platinum miners, who were hoping to wrap up their continental campaign by playing in front of their home fans in Zvishavane, were hard done by Caf, which rescinded its own decision to have the game played at Mandava Stadium due to lack of “accommodation” in the Midlands town. Despite the setback of shifting to Barbourfields Stadium where they played Pirates and Horoya, Mapeza said his charges are upbeat. “Everyone is raring to go. Morale in camp is high despite the fact that we will miss Perfect Chikwende, who is out due to a groin injury picked up in last week’s game against Orlando Pirates in Johannesburg,” said Mapeza. FC Platinum will also miss the services of the suspended trio of defensive midfielder Kelvin Madzongwe, central defender Gift Bello and left-back Elvis Moyo. Mapeza has adequate cover for the absent players, with Rainsome Pavari and Devon Chafa capable of playing in the defensive midfield role, with William Stima and Kelvin Moyo capable of playing on the left side of defence, with Lawrence Mhlanga expected to replace Bello. They will pin their hopes on goalkeeper, Petros Mhari, who has been in terrific continental form that earned him a national team call-up, Farai Madhananga, Rahman Kutsanzira, Ali Sadiki and Raphael Muduviwa. — @ZililoR