The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter A GANG of eight machete-wielding robbers attacked and robbed six travellers along the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road. Police spokesperson for Matabeleland North Province Chief Inspector Siphiwe Makonese said a manhunt has been launched following the Saturday attack which left one person injured. The armed robbers reportedly parked a commuter omnibus on the side of the road in Inyathi, pretending they had breakdown and attacked Mr Bongani Ndlovu (42) who had stopped to assist them. Mr Ndlovu was driving a Mazda vehicle with five passengers on board. One of his passengers, Mr Leonard Ndlovu (53), was injured during the attack and was rushed to Inyathi District Hospital where he was treated and discharged. “Police received a report about a motorist who was driving a Mazda vehicle and five passengers who were attacked and robbed by unknown men. On approaching Plot Number 10 in Mlotshwa area near Longwe River at around 8PM, Bongani Ndlovu saw a silver kombi parked by the roadside. “Ndlovu stopped his vehicle and disembarked as he thought the occupants of the kombi had a breakdown. At that moment eight people came out of the kombi armed with machetes and attacked Ndlovu and the five passengers while demanding money and other valuables,” said Chief Insp Makonese. She said the suspects allegedly forcibly took $70, R400, 20 litres of petrol which was in a jerry can, spanners and three cellphones before smashing windows and lights of the victims’ car. Nothing was recovered. Mr Ndlovu and the five passengers who were all going towards Nkayi escaped and sought refuge at a nearby homestead. They returned to the vehicle after two hours and found that all the vehicle’s lights and windows had been smashed while all tyres were deflated. The suspects had driven off in their kombi. Meanwhile, Chief Insp Makonese appealed to members of the public who may have information about the whereabouts of the suspects to report at their nearest police station. – @ncubeleon.