The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent A MAN from Trenance suburb in Bulawayo has been arrested for allegedly raping and robbing a woman from the same suburb moments after they both disembarked from a pirate taxi. Bekithemba Nkomo (23) is alleged to have raped a woman who is twice his age last Friday at about 8PM. Bulawayo deputy police spokesperson Inspector Abednico Ncube said Nkomo will appear in court soon facing rape and robbery charges. “We have arrested a 23-year-old man for allegedly raping and robbing a 46-year-old woman in Trenance suburb. Allegations are that the suspect boarded a pirating Honda Fit vehicle with the complainant in the city centre to Trenance suburb. “They both disembarked from the vehicle at corner Shillow and Richard Road in Trenance and started walking together to their respective homes. Nkomo is said to have told the woman that he had arrived at his home, hence making a turn,” said Insp Ncube. “The complainant continued walking towards her home before she was attacked from behind by a man who throttled her with a red piece of cloth. “Before she fell unconscious, the woman said she managed to identify her assailant by his red T-shirt which made her believe it was the same man that she had boarded a taxi with who attacked her.” He said Nkomo allegedly raped the woman once before robbing her of R100, a purse which had valuables amounting to RTGS$300. Insp Ncube said the public should avoid walking with strangers in secluded places as some turn out to be monsters. “We want to applaud the woman for being able to identify the clothing that was worn by her attacker. When police officers investigated the matter they discovered the said clothing which assisted in the positive identification of the suspect and arrest,” he said. Cases of woman being raped while on their way home are of concern in Bulawayo.Earlier this month, a woman from Richmond suburb was raped and robbed on her way home from collecting her three-year-old child from crèche. – @nqotshili