The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter ZIMBABWE today joins the international community in commemorating the International Women’s Day with calls for increased efforts towards ensuring the economic empowerment, safety and good health of women. International Women’s Day is celebrated on March 8 annually and was declared by the United Nations in 1975 as a focal point in the movement for women’s rights. President Emmerson Mnangagwa said this year was all about celebrating empowered Zimbabwean women who have contributed towards the development of the country. “On International Women’s Day we celebrate the strong, empowered Zimbabwean women who contribute so much to our nation. We will continue to work towards full equality and further empowerment for girls and women in the new Zimbabwe,” he said on his Twitter page. In separate statements, World Food Programme Zimbabwe said funding food security would help women attain the needed development. “Putting women and girls in the front and centre in policy decisions and programmes to tackle hunger and poverty is vital for reaching our goal of a Zero Hunger world by 2030. Reducing inequalities and removing barriers that exclude women from influencing development in all sectors advances food security,” said WFP Country director, Mr Eddie Rowe. “Women’s participation is a precondition, but not a guarantee, of women’s empowerment. It is imperative that all partners work together to realise our shared ambition for our programmes to be gender transformative and empower women,” he said. Norvatis Africa head Ms Racey Baraza said all communities should take steps to recognise the crucial role women play, and look to easing their burden and supporting healthier, happier lives for Africa’s women. “While women across the continent can now take their rightful places in industry and government, millions more remain isolated, oppressed and underserved,” she said. “The pharmaceutical sector too, has a responsibility to leverage its strengths for everyone’s benefit, and work with private and public sector in rural and urban communities, to ensure that the solutions we provide are practical and tailor made towards solving the challenges affecting women on the ground.” – @thamamoe.