The Chronicle Eddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau AFTER two months of intensive preparations, giants Dynamos are set to get their test run in the opening match of the 2019 season against Premiership debutants Mushowani at Rufaro this afternoon. The Glamour Boys are under the spotlight again following a rebuilding exercise carried out by coach Lloyd Chigowe. Yesterday, they were still praying for the availability of their skipper Edward Sadomba who picked a knock during training. Defender Jimmy Tigere, who could lead the team should Sadomba be unavilable, believes they have to guard against complacency. “I think it’s an uphill task because Mushowani are new to the league and we shouldn’t leave any room to underrate them. ‘’Given the preparations we have had here, I believe most of our guys are ready. “I think we have a competitive side although we have new, unknown players in the squad but a new star can be born on any day,” said Tigere. Dynamos have a bad reputation of being slow starters. They have not won their opening match of the season in the last three years. The Glamour Boys boosted their morale by winning the pre-season charity match against bitter rivals CAPS United earlier this month. They have recruited a group comprising some relatively unknown players like Emmanuel Jalayi, Ali Maliselo, Walter Sande, Tino Muringani, TiNashe Simbo and Tawanda Chisi, who was part of the national Under-23 side against Mozambique this week in the Afcon qualifiers. They also have four foreign imports – Robert Sackey, Ngandu Mangala, Herve Vincent Mbega and Ngahan Claude Junior. However, most of the new recruits lack the experience of playing for a demanding club like Dynamos. The coming in of new sponsors Gold Leaf Tobacco, who poured in $1m for this season, has boosted morale in their side. “In general, football is a pressure game and given that Dynamos are a big institution it demands a lot of hard work for us to get results each and every week,’’ said Tigere. ‘’Basically, we are aiming for better performances compared to last season. “We haven’t set any specific targets but we will take each game as it comes, hoping to be victorious in each and every game.’’ Giants Highlanders will open their campaign with a date against Black Rhinos at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon. The two teams yesterday got a huge boost after NetOne renewed their sponsorship packages with them. CAPS United, who also benefitted from a similar arrangement, will host Luke Masomere’s newboys Manica Diamonds at the giants stadium tomorrow. Fixtures Today: Black Rhinos v Highlanders (National Sports Stadium), Chicken Inn v ZPC Kariba (Luveve Stadium), Mushowani Stars v Dynamos (Rufaro), Chapungu v Bulawayo Chiefs (Mandava). Sunday: CAPS United v Manica Diamonds (National Sports Stadium), Triangle United v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Gibbo), Hwange v Yadah (Colliery), Herentals v TelOne (Rufaro).