The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter EMAKHANDENI Tennis Club has sent three players to participate at a three-day tennis tournament in Gwanda schools which started yesterday and will end tomorrow at Collen Bawn Club Courts. The players are Simphiwe Matibi (12), Walter Sibanda (14) and Zinhle Jiyane (9). Other participating learners are from Senondo, Jahunda, St Christopher’s, Gwanda Adventist, Portland, Colleen Bawn, Sabiwa Primary and Gwanda High. The tournament is aimed at developing tennis in Matatebeland South as it gives youngsters an opportunity to showcase their talent. Emakhandeni Tennis Club chairman Witness Jiyane said his club has been working with the Gwanda community in the resuscitation of tennis in the town and surrounding areas. “As a club we’re taking three players to Gwanda to take part in the initiative carried out there. We agreed that we will be holding at least one tournament every three months. The consistence shown by the Gwanda community is inspiring as parents have been working with the coach Mtshutshisi Mathema, whose passion can’t be disputed,” said Jiyane. Gwanda Academy held a workshop for the participating schools in January and February and trained children basic skills of playing tennis. The training was held with the assistance from the Emakhandeni Tennis Club and Elite Tennis Academy. Athletes will compete in four categories; Under-10s, Under-12s, Under-14s and Under-18s. “Zinhle (Jiyane) will be participating in the Under-10, Simphiwe (Matibi) will take part in the Under-14 while Walter (Sibanda) will participate in the Under-18 category. Apart from being one of the organisers of the event I’m going there to impart some of the ideas and technical skills to the club and hope that the initiative will be useful in the long run,” Jiyane said. He said the two clubs last held a competitive venture in 1994 when young players led by former Emakhandeni tennis Club coach Wellington Sibanda went to Gwanda for a competitive junior tournament. — @DecoDecent2