The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter AWARD-winning music video director Andy Cutta has urged sungura musicians to up their visual game in order for the genre to go beyond the country’s borders. Andy Cutta, who is nominated twice for the 2018 National Arts Merit Awards in the Outstanding Music Video category, said music videos are a marketing tool for musicians so if one has a good video it becomes easy to market them outside the country. The video director, who was raised in Bulawayo, said he is impressed by the way most Zimbabwean musicians are producing high quality videos as it shows seriousness on their part. However, one genre – sungura – is worrying Andy as most of its artistes seem reluctant to produce quality videos. “The standards of Zimbabwean music videos have improved, but one genre that I’m concerned about is sungura as it is still lagging behind. Their videos are failing to meet international standards,” Andy said. Sungura musicians like Alick Macheso have for a very long time been criticised for producing sub-standard quality videos with Andy saying such people need to work on their visuals. He said sungura musicians should be more creative with their videos. “Fashion, special effects and also avoiding the use of obvious locations that are predictable are things that should be taken note of. Even the urban musicians should work with stylists for their videos,” suggested Andy. Many Zimbabwean musicians are penetrating the continental market as their music is being played on platforms like YouTube as well as music channels – Channel O, Trace and Mtv Africa. To try and assist artistes who are lagging behind, Andy said he would be exploring and working with artistes from various genres that he does not usually work with. Speaking on his Nama nominations for songstress Tamy Moyo’s Tekere and gospel musician Janet Manyowa’s Tinomutenda Neyi videos which he directed, Andy said: “I greatly appreciate the fact that my work is being noticed and it inspires me to want to do more.” He said he does not only direct music videos but also does the production of TV shows. Currently, he is working on several reality shows which will be released this year.