The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter VETERAN coach Rahman Gumbo heaped praises on Warriors players for keeping their calm, shaking off pressure to book a place in this year’s Afcon finals in Egypt following a 2-0 win over Congo Brazzaville. Gumbo, the Warriors’ assistant coach, said playing in front of a near capacity filled National Sports Stadium in Harare on Sunday had its toll on the players, some of who “lost steam” after a good first half performance. The Warriors needed a draw to book a place in the continental finals to be held from June 15 to July 19, and qualified in style with a victory to top Group G with 11 points from six games. They qualified with the DR Congo, who finished on nine points after beating Liberia 1-0 at home. Zimbabwe scored their two goals in the first half, courtesy of a well-taken Khama Billiat freekick and a superb Knowledge Musona strike. Despite a quiet second half, Zimbabwe managed to defend the two goals and it is that ability to put up a good show that charmed Gumbo. “At the end of the day these guys deserved it; they deserve to go to Egypt for the finals. Look at it; they’ve been fighting from the first game. They’ve been improving with every game and played well today,” said Gumbo. “There was huge pressure, even players could feel it. Some of these players haven’t been at this stage and I think when they came into the ground, saw a packed stadium and the electric atmosphere in the terraces, the players felt the pressure. “You could see they played well in the first half; second half we were doing more of defending than attacking because that tension had taken a lot of steam out of some of the guys.” Midfielder Danny Phiri, who had a great game, covering almost every blade of grass at the National Sports Stadium, dedicated their victory to Cyclone Idai victims. Hundreds of lives were lost and hundreds more are still missing, while unquantified damage was caused to property and infrastructure in the Eastern Highlands. “It was important that we win the game because the nation had been plunged into mourning and needed something to cheer it. Even the Minister (of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Kirsty Coventry) was pleased that the nation got something to smile about. “We also thank the supporters for coming in their numbers to support us. Now that the group stages are over, we will concentrate on club football and hope to be part of the squad that will be considered for Egypt,” said Phiri. Fans also praised the Warriors; with the Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters Association Bulawayo wing chairman Carlmarx Nkomo saying: “We had about 400 people travelling for the game from Bulawayo, Victoria Falls and Gweru. “We are happy that the Warriors didn’t disappoint and the fans never booed the players, but cheered them on from the first whistle. “The kind of support shown to the Warriors should be given to our women’s teams and all age-group sides.” — @ZililoR