The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
FEARS of misappropriation of funds by a former Zifa senior staffer resurfaced this week after Caf publicly confirmed that they had been releasing funds for the remuneration of then Zifa education officer, Brian Moyo. Moyo was appointed to the position in 2012, during the tenure of Cuthbert Dube as Zifa president and Jonathan Mashingaidze as general secretary (chief executive officer), but never received any payment, which ordinarily comes through the association from Caf. At the time the post was abolished in December, 2017, Moyo was owed about $21 000. “The salary of (the) education officer was borne by Caf. However, the mission of all Caf education officers ceased on 31 December 2017, and a circular was communicated to all MA’s (member associations) to that effect,” Caf English editor and media officer confirmed in an e-mailed response to a Chronicle Sport inquiry yesterday. It’s not clear why Moyo was not paid despite Caf consistently releasing funds for his remuneration on time. As a Caf education officer, Moyo acted as a football development manager, information provider and courses/seminars’ coordinator for all matters related to football development, including, but not limited to coaching, refereeing, administration and medical matters. Article C of the Caf handbook for education officers authored by Caf football development director Abdel Moneim Hussein Shatta reads: “To reach this goal, two means are essentially applied; firstly, a Caf education officer is nominated by each respective national association and confirmed by Caf using strict criteria of selection. This education officer is paid through his federation $3 000 every six months. “The EO (education officer) represents for Caf the ideal contact person to communicate and exchange content on football development projects undertaken by the confederation, and to maintain and channel a direct link between Caf and the MAs (member associations) in the areas linked to football education, teaching and development. “It’s important to clarify as well that each EO is an employee of the MA, subsidised by Caf, and staying under the direct authority of the MA general secretary.”