The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT has said pupils in areas hit by Cyclone Idai-induced floods must not go to school until it is safe to do so. The Minister of Primary and Secondary Education, Professor Paul Mavima, said his Ministry would also deploy psychologists to affected areas. He said the Ministry has communicated with Provincial and District Education Officers that if it’s not safe, schools should be closed. “We know that Manicaland was the worst affected but we don’t know as yet how many schools were hit because there are some areas which our teams are unable to reach. I cannot say for sure how many schools were affected and what is the level of property damaged. In Manicaland especially in Chamanimani and Chipinge district, the damage was quite extensive,” said Prof Mavima. “In Masvingo it’s mainly the effect of the water, the rains and rising water levels which are now affecting some classroom blocks. To tell you for sure how much damage has been done at this particular point would be immature.” He urged learners and teachers to exercise caution to avoid further casualties. “We can’t put a blanket statement so you will see that for example in Chimanimani, most of those schools will be closed but in other places like Mutare for example, there is no need at all to close schools. “The only thing that we’ve been trying to do is to communicate with the provincial as well as district officers to tell them that if it’s not safe, schools should be closed and where there is a need for psychological services and counselling purposes, our people are on the ground doing that,” Prof Mavima said. He said the cyclone had resulted in the death of learners and a headmaster. “We know that we have lost quite a number of people in Manicaland, the Charles Luwanga School is the most affected and our learners have had to be evacuated. They haven’t reached Chipinge where they are supposed to arrive before they are transferred to Mutare. They are out of danger but we know already that we lost two learners there,” Prof Mavima said. – @AuxiliaK