The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent VETERAN playwright Thulani Mbambo says he sold his cattle to fund his play The Hostel that has landed him a National Art Merit Awards (Nama) nomination. Mbambo is nominated in the Outstanding Theatre Director category with one of the play’s actresses, Qeqeshiwe Mntambo nominated in the Outstanding Actress category. Mbambo is nominated with Lloyd Nyikadzino for the Zandezi production and Everson Ndlovu for Deep Down Inside. Funding for the play that premiered at the Intwasa Arts Festival koBulawayo last year, Mbambo said, was partly drawn from his cattle from his rural home in Silobela. “With the harsh economic upheavals that the nation is going through, it was very hard to put together the money to fund the play. All our projects we self-fund and sometimes, I sell cattle at my rural home to help fund the productions. “I really believe in my art and so does my family and they understand that this is my passion,” said Mbambo. Some of the costs include printing of scripts for the play, transport for actors and their refreshments, posters and fliers for publicity and booking the venue to showcase the play. Mbambo who is Amakhosi Cultural Centre’s theatre director said despite the challenges he faced in coming up with the production, working with The Hostel cast was a joy. “Working on the play was very challenging but working with the cast was a great experience. I’ve worked with them (cast) for a long time and know their strengths and weaknesses.” Speaking about his Nama nomination, Mbambo said he was overjoyed that the awards adjudicators nominated his works. “Whether I win or lose, just being nominated for the award is a great thing for my career. It shows that people sat down and saw it fit for my works to qualify and be nominated for this national accolade,” said Mbambo. He said the secret to having a successful play was to mirror what happens in society on the stage. “Theatre just mirrors society and that’s my secret. I write stories that tell the everyday struggles, pain and joy of people and put it on stage. There’s no story bigger than that,” said Mbambo. The playwright who is not new to the world of theatre is famed for plays such as The Village Bull, Double Funeral (which was nominated five times at last year’s Namas) and Screams.