The Chronicle Mehluli Sibanda in Harare ZIMBABWE Rugby Union president Aaron Jani expressed delight in the manner the Kwese Invitational Sevens panned out at Harare Sports Club at the weekend. The tournament took place in Harare for the first time after the first two editions of the event were held in Victoria Falls. Jani said ZRU moved the Kwese Invitational Sevens from Victoria Falls to the capital city because of logistical challenges they faced in the resort town. “We are very pleased and I think it was the right move to bring the tournament to Harare. In terms of our costs, I think we’ve managed to keep the costs in check and our participants were much happier because the tournament was better organised here in Harare,” said Jani. He said ZRU was happy with the attendance although the figures were lower than they had projected and attributed this to the fact that it was the first time the tournament was held in Harare. “Although we didn’t get as many people as we would have liked to come and watch the games, we were quite happy as this was the first tournament (in Harare). We’re quite happy with the people that came to watch. I don’t have the exact figures as yet but I am encouraged. I am sure next year the tournament will even be bigger,” he said. The Zimbabwe men’s team, which is preparing for the Hong Kong Sevens early next month, went all the way to the final and were beaten 19-14 by Georgia. Jani is pleased with the competitiveness shown by the Cheetahs who suffered just that one defeat to Georgia. “Obviously with our preparations going into Hong Kong, we would have liked to win as a boost for the Hong Kong Sevens. It didn’t happen, but we gave it a good go and it was very competitive.” A number of countries pulled out in the days leading up to the tournament, something Jani attributed to financial constraints. Botswana, Lesotho and Uganda were among the teams that withdrew at the last minute. “I understand the problems because I was in contact with the presidents of those unions and the issue at the end of the day is finances. It’s a problem that is within Africa and it’s something that we need to look at and find out  how we can overcome the challenge as a collective. I do understand some of the constraints but we will make sure that next year there is ample time to prepare for the tournament. We will make contingency plans to also ensure that we can assist financially,” said Jani. He was pleased by performances of teams like Malawi and Zambia, something he said should spur ZRU into action because other countries are improving their game. “I was very impressed to look at sides like Malawi, who are finding their way into the regional scene and they played very well. We look at Zambia, they are really growing; it’s showing that the structures they have put in place are showing. It’s in a way a wake up call that if we don’t begin to improve from where we are, other African countries are we going to catch up.” ZRU took advantage of the presence of the Georgians in Zimbabwe by cementing ties, which will see the Cheetahs playing in a tournament in that country later this year. – @Mdawini_29