The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter Multi-award-winning singer Sandra ‘Sandy’ Ndebele has expressed joy at being nominated in the National Arts Merit Awards (Nama) saying it is an honour to be regarded as one of the best musicians in the country. Sandy, who was once awarded best dancer at the Namas, has been nominated in the Outstanding Female Musician category and is up against two phenomenal musicians Janet Manyowa and Tamy Moyo who are doing well in the music industry. The musician who reckons she made a great comeback in 2018 after being nominated for three Sky Metro FM Awards – Best House, Best Female Artiste and Song of the Year said the Nama nomination was an endorsement of her works. “It’s always a great feeling to be nominated at such a prestigious award ceremony. I’ve been doing music for 15 years and being nominated in this category for the first time is a great indicator that I’m in the right direction.” “I’m up against very talented and hardworking female musicians. Whoever takes the award will have won for us all as women in the entertainment industry.” For this year, the singer who is spending a lot of time in studio, experimenting with several sounds said she will be releasing many singles. “My fans should expect more music from me this year as I’m working extra hard in the studio. I’m also doing collaborations with a lot of artistes so it’s going to be a great year for me,” she said. Other than singles, Sandy who raised the bar high with her Lizwile music video that featured South Africa’s Professor said she is hoping to release about five high quality music videos. Turning to performances, Sandy who is a Zol internet service provider brand ambassador said she will be travelling to Harare next month for the Bhora Nemagitare charity gala being held at Dzivarasekwa Stadium. The gala being organised by Chipaz Promotions will have over 50 big names in the music industry including Jah Prayzah, Alexio Kawara, Killer T, Sulumani Chimbetu and Charles Charamba. “I’m excited to be part of this charity gala and it’s always great to see musicians coming together for a great cause. On the day, in the afternoon, musicians will play soccer and from 6PM, there’ll be a music gala that will end the following morning,” said Sandy.