The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter
PROSPECT Lithium Zimbabwe, has successfully completed its plant optimisation which will result in High Pressure Grinding Roll (HPGR) being a viable option for the Arcadia Lithium project’s processing design. The company, which has a lithium operation outside Harare, is a unit of Australia Stock Exchange-listed group, Prospect Resources Plc. In a statement, Prospect Resources said the use of a HPGR, which is energy efficient grinding solution, designed to lower operational costs and improve mine performance, will significantly simplify Arcadia’s processing design and replace tertiary and quatermary crushers. “Prospect Resources Ltd is pleased to announce that it has successfully completed its plant optimisation, resulting in High Pressure Grinding Roll (HPGR) being a viable option for the Arcadia Lithium Project’s processing design,” it said. “The use of a HPGR significantly simplifies Arcadia’s processing design replacing tertiary and quatermary crushers.” Prospect said the use of HPGR was expected to reduce Arcadia’s capital expenditure by US$2,3 million to US$163 million, which is a 1,4 percent reduction from the financial year 2018. “The use of HPGR is expected to deliver a reduction of operating expenditure by US$7 per tonne or 2,46 percent to US$278/tonne.” Last year the company implemented value engineering initiatives to optimise the plant design for its 87 percent-owned Arcadia Lithium project. Prospect’s managing director, Mr Sam Hosack, commenting in the same statement, said the ongoing value engineering initiatives have delivered positive outcomes. “The ongoing and focused value engineering initiatives have delivered positive outcomes and have demonstrated that HPGR technology can be utilised in the Arcadia Lithium Project’s processing plant,” he said. “The advantages of HPGR technology are considerable, providing a significant reduction in complexity and operational resource demand. “Including HPGR in the plant’s processing design will have a positive impact on the project economics, both with capital and operating costs.” Mr Hosack said Prospect Resources was undertaking additional value engineering initiatives which include a review into the Arcadia’s logistics. He said the company was focusing its efforts on identifying further cost reductions and operating improvements in order to improve Arcadia’s economics. Last month, the miner was approved to become a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) by the Zimbabwe Special Economic Zone Authority. The move provides a list of benefits for the company which includes tax relief and the ability to hold and operate foreign currency accounts. — @queentauruszw