The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
TSHOLOTSHO’s National Association of Primary School Heads (Naph) head in charge of volleyball, Mandlenkosi Moyo, who died at Parirenyatwa Hospital in Harare early this week, was laid to rest at Athlone Cemetery in Bulawayo yesterday. He was 45. Moyo passed on in the early hours on February 26 after he collapsed before being attended to by his doctor, having gone to the capital for specialist treatment after a short illness. He was a headmaster at Mate Primary School in Tsholotsho South. Speaking on the sidelines of the burial yesterday, Naph chairperson for Tsholotsho district Sikhumbuzo Mbewe described the late Moyo as a dedicated person who helped uplift the standard of volleyball in the district. “We are saddened by the sadden passing on of a dear colleague, someone who loved his work and was totally committed to his extra responsibilities as the head in charge of volleyball in Tsholotsho,” said Mbewe. Under the stewardship of Moyo, the district managed to send a pupil to Team Zimbabwe for the Confederation of Schools Sport Associations of Southern Africa (Cossasa) games held in Namibia last year. “That shows the kind of person that Moyo was and it will be hard for the district to find a replacement in the sport of volleyball especially that our ball games are just but around the corner,” said Mbewe. Moyo’s elder brother, Phathezakhe, said the family was still in a shock over the sudden death of a family member which comes a year after they also lost a sister. “Only three of us from a family of six now remain and it’s something which is verydifficult to contemplate,” said Phathezakhe. Addressing mourners, Public Service Commission representative Syggn Ndlovu said Tsholotsho district had lost a great man. “It’s all God’s decision but we are saddened as an employer to lose such a man,” said Ndlovu. Hundreds of mourners who include teachers and school heads as well as some villagers from Tsholotsho attended the burial. Moyo leaves behind a wife, Bongani, and three children, two girls and a boy.