The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
BULAWAYO Chiefs have appointed Joseph Sibindi as their head coach, complying with Zifa’s standardisation of coaches. The club, which had applied to Zifa to have Thulani Sibanda exempted and allowed to coach while waiting to go into the next Caf A Licence class, has decided to bring Sibindi, a sports science lecturer at a local university. Sibindi, takes over from Garthly Chipuka, who moved back to Harare, and was introduced to the club’s technical team last Thursday and is expected to meet the players today. According to Zifa standardisation of coaches, Premier Soccer League clubs are expected to hire heads of their technical teams that are holders of Caf A badges. “The issue of the coach is done and dusted as the club has settled for Sibindi. He was introduced to the technical team that has been doing the pre-season preparations last week on Thursday and is supposed to roll out his programme tomorrow. The executive believes that Sibindi has the required experience to guide the squad,” said a source within the Chiefs leadership. Sibindi had a brief Premiership coaching stint with now defunct Bantu Rovers and last year he guided former topflight side Tsholotsho to a second place finish in the Zifa Southern Region Division One League. The arrival of Sibindi means Sibanda, who led the club into the Premiership and was known to be the “real” head of Chiefs’ technical, will work hand in glove with the former. Sibanda has been preparing for the season alongside Mduduzi Mpofu, a teacher at Milton Junior School, goalkeepers’ trainer Nkosiyazi Ncube and former Highlanders defender Anzilom Ndlovu, who has also been doubling, up as juniors’ coach. Chiefs’ media officer Thulani Javas Sibanda said they will issue a statement about the coach. “Our position with regards to the issue of head coach as well as the structure of the technical team is still an issue currently at boardroom level. Once all issues are ironed out, we will issue a statement,” said Javas. – @ZililoR.