The Chronicle Bridgette Moyo, Midlands Reporter HARARE Province were the overall National Association of Secondary School Heads (Nash) track and field athletics competition winners after its athletes scoped 15 gold medals, 11 silver and 9 bronze at the just ended competitions were held at Midlands Christian College in Gweru. The track and field competitions were the first to combine the National Association of Primary School Heads (Naph) AND Nash and ran from March 26-29. Defending champions, Bulawayo province occupied a distant 9th position out of the 10 provinces which participated at this year’s competitions. Masvingo province which came second had 11 gold, 11 silver and 6 bronze. In third place was Mashonaland West with 11 gold, 8 silver and 18 bronze. Manicaland had 11 gold, 8 silver and 10 bronze followed buy Midlands with 8 gold, 6 silver and five bronze. Mashonaland East was in 6th place with 5 gold, 8 silver and 9 bronze followed by Mashonaland Central in 7th place with 4 gold, 6 silver and 6 bronze. Matabeleland South was in 8th place with 3 gold, 5 silver and 4 bronze. Bulawayo followed with 2 gold, 6 silver and 2 bronze. Matabeleland North anchored with 1 gold, 2 silver and 2 bronze. In respect to the Under 21 and Under 18 competitions Harare Province came first, Under 20 category was won by Mashonaland Central while Under 12 category was won by the Mashonaland West province. Under 17 boys from Harare also scooped the famous medley relay. Nash president Mr Arthur Maphosa said the track and field’s competition had brought the best athletes from the country’s 10 provinces. “We celebrate the beauty of sport, sports is a unifier as it straddles, ages, religious, political and colour boundaries. It is an employment through entertainment as well as a practical endorsement of every child’s potential. There are all forms of freedom in sport such as life, expressions, association and a whole lot more. A nation that gathers and celebrates the potential of its youth as we annually do gives a future to its children,” he said. The games also saw 100 winners from all the categories being chosen to represent the country during the Confederation of Schools Sport Associations of Southern Africa (Cossasa) team for games set for Swaziland next month.