The Chronicle Ricky Zililo in Gweru
FORMER national Under-20 and Dynamos winger Emmanuel Mandiranga was unveiled alongside eight other players by Premier Soccer League debutants, TelOne FC, at a colourful function held here yesterday. Mandiranga (23), who dumped Dynamos at the end of last season, joined the “WiFi Boys” as a free agent. The ex-FC Platinum, Bulawayo City and How Mine player, who has been eyeing a move to South Africa, was unveiled alongside James Jam formerly with Harare City and Chapungu as well as ex-Lancashire Steel, Highlanders and Dynamos striker, Jacob Muzokomba. TelOne have also signed unheralded former FC Platinum Under-19 player David Mangezi, 17-year-old Raphael Mtisi, Fredrick Muza (21) who was at Mutare City and 22-year-old Marvelous Chigumira. Former Tsholotsho attacking midfielder Mcebisi Moyo completes the list of players unveiled by TelOne.
Lloyd Mutetwa, the club president, is confident that they have quality players who can effectively compete in the topflight. “We are in the Premiership to stay. Our squad is made up mostly of young players eager to make their names. These players are here to write their own piece of history as the pioneers of our maiden appearance in the Premiership. We will effectively compete,” said Mutetwa. TelOne will this morning parade their squad during a friendly match against Black Rhinos at Ascot Stadium. The training game will start at 11AM. Former Zimbabwe international, Joel Luphahla, who hopes the unheralded players, the core members of his squad, emulate him and set the PSL alight, said they are almost done with the squad. The Gweru side is planning a Dynamos raid, with striker Quality Kangadzi reportedly on his way to TelOne. “We are almost done with our squad. We might add one player to those we have. “Yes, we’ve spoken to Quality (Kangadzi) and he indicated that he wants to join us. He is a quality player and we will be happy to have him on board,” said Luphahla. Among other players that TelOne has signed are ex-Tsholotsho and Bulawayo City’s Trust Nyabinde, striker Tafadzwa Sibanda who had a loan stint with Highlanders last year, former Chicken Inn striker Blessing Sibanda and ex-Tsholotsho forward Motsafa Ponyera. They also have 17-year-old attacking midfielder Kuda Munetsi, midfielders Fortune Nkala, Leeroy Rwokuda, Paddy “Beast” Nyamatanga, striker Beven Kandani as well as central defender Stephen Phiri who they retained from last season’s squad. Meanwhile, Mutetwa said they are in the process of signing a coach with a Caf A badge to work with Luphahla. “A new face will be added into the technical team as we seek to comply with Fifa Club Licensing tenets,” Mutetwa said. — @ZililoR