The Chronicle Fungai Muderere in Blantyre, Malawi
YOUNG Brett Amidu, who was stretchered off the field during Chicken Inn’s second game of the Nyasa Big Four Bonanza tournament against Nyasa Big Bullets on Saturday, reportedly suffered soft tissue injuries from a Sankhani Mkandawire crude tackle on his right sheen. Amidu got injured 10 minutes before halftime in a match the Gamecocks were edged 2-1 and he was accompanied to a Government run Queen Elizabeth Hospital in this commercial capital of Malawi by the club’s newly hired team doctor Willmore Kapuyanyika. “From the crude tackle, Bret suffered soft tissue injuries which he would likely be able to shake off with intensive physiotherapy. The injury would have potentially damaged his tibia plateau which could have been a career ending knee injury. He was fortunate that when the tackle occurred, his right leg was already lifted off the ground. A fraction of a second saved him from the potential career ending injury,” said Kapuyanyika. He said they carried out an X-Ray to check for any fractures, adding that the player might be back in action within a week or two. Walking with a limp, the player joined his fellow teammates at their Mpira Palace base, a project that the Football Association of Malawi built from the Fifa Goal Project, two hours after their match against Nyasa Big Bullets. Endowed with good ball control, visionary play and ability to score goals, Amidu (22) recently signed for Chicken Inn on a permanent basis, ending his relationship with Castle Lager Premier Soccer League champions, FC Platinum. He spent the second half of last season at Dynamos on a loan spell from his parent club and chose to move to Chicken Inn because he was not keen to return to FC Platinum. Meanwhile, yesterday the Simbisa Brands, Blackshark Protection Services, Bonvie Medical Aid Scheme and Zibuko Capital bankrolled Gamecocks, held a two hour training session at the artificial surfaced Mpira Palace ground ahead of their last match of the tournament against Clube Ferroviário de Nampula from Mozambique at Kamuzu Stadium today. “It will be our first time to play Clube Ferroviário de Nampula and we hope to do well. We have played against good sides and I believe we have also shown what we are made of despite the fact that we have been trying different combinations. This camp has positively impacted on us as a team,” said Chicken Inn head coach Joey Antipas.