The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter ECONET Group subsidiary Cassava Fintech South Africa has launched an enhanced cross-border money transfer service that is set to cover the rest of Africa. The move comes at a time when the local unit of the giant firm has also launched its ambulance service in partnership with MARS, a local ambulance service entity. Cassava, which is recognised globally as an African champion for financial inclusion, has been scaling up financial technology services including mobile money, mobile micro-insurance, payments and digital banking. Cassava Fintech International Group chief executive officer, Mr Darlington Mandivenga, said they were now providing unparalleled access to over 200 million mobile money wallets and 100 million bank accounts across Africa, which provide last mile access for remittances from South Africa, EU and the UK. “Cassava Fintech provides unparalleled access to over 200 million mobile money wallets and 100 million bank accounts across Africa, which provide last mile access for remittances from South Africa, EU and the UK,” he said. “The Cassava Group also offers international remittance services to all African countries under the brand name Cassava Remit Limited in the UK.” Mr Mandivenga said the mobile app will act like EcoCash, where one will receive money direct into their EcoCash FCA wallet and can cash out at any Econet Shop. Meanwhile, Cassava’s Ecosure unit announced in a press statement the unveiling of a new service that will offer its customers access to ambulance services from MARS. “Cassava Smartech Zimbabwe’s EcoSure insurance business has unveiled a package that will offer its customers access to ambulance services from MARS,” reads part of the statement. “The package, which was launched today (Friday) by EcoSure in partnership with MARS, will allow existing and potential EcoSure policy holders to register and get access to ambulance services throughout Zimbabwe.” Cassava SmarTech Zimbabwe chief executive officer, Mr Eddie Chibi, said the service would help save lives at an affordable cost. “Over the years we have seen lives needlessly lost due to inaccessibility of ambulance services. That’s why we have now developed the ambulance add-on service to give access to affordable ambulance services to the majority of Zimbabweans,” he said. Mr Chibi said the EcoSure ambulance add-on service will be accessible to customers registered on any EcoSure funeral cover. He said to access the service the customer just calls the MARS hotline number.—@queentauruszw