The Chronicle Michael Magoronga, Business Correspondent THE Zimbabwe National Statistics Agency (Zimstat) will this year introduce a new framework for statistics on works, employment and labour utilisation as a way of responding to the latest trends and dynamics in the market. Zimbabwe will for the first time use the new framework during its 2019 Labour force and Child Labour Survey (LFCLS) following its adoption by the 19th International Conference of Labour Statistics (ICLS) in 2013 and its subsequent approval by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in 2014. The country conducts a LFCLS every five years and has been lagging behind as it was still using the same framework since 1988. Officially opening a Stakeholders’ Sensitisation Workshop on the 2019 labour force survey at a hotel in Kwekwe on Monday, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare, Dr Judith Kateera, said the new framework was in line with the country’s National Vision 2030. “Accordingly, the need for the regularly updated indicators relevant for the world cannot be overemphasised, hence the need to work towards having biennial if not annual labour force surveys. “The availing of job opportunities and high quality of life to the wider populace are the hallmarks of our National Vision 2030 as well at the Global Sustainable Agenda 2030 as well as the Africa Development Agenda 2063,” she said. Dr Kateera said the adoption of the new standards, which have already been adopted by most countries, will ensure Zimbabwe keeps abreast with best practices in the production of statistics of work. “The new framework was adopted in response to the dynamics of labour and changing patterns of work. “These trends in the labour markets require policy makers to respond to the needs of different target groups hence the need for more comprehensive information relevant for diverse users,” she said. Government recently launched the Zimbabwe Labour Migration Policy, a standard Dr Kateera said her ministry was keen to see being applied on a larger scale to allow obtaining of comprehensive information in the country which is of vital importance to the socio-economic development of the country. The new survey standards now confines employment to work performed for others in exchange for pay or profit and now excludes own use production and volunteer work. It also broadens the labour under-utilisation category redefining the potential labour force to include groups who are classified as outside the labour force but have an unmet need for employment. This group includes those who may be engaged in other activities like unemployment homemakers, subsistence farmers and students. Addressing the same gathering, acting Zimstat Director General Ms Taizivei Mungate said the changes needed to be well communicated to all policy makers in Government, civil society, politicians and the general public for the results of the survey to be accepted and meaningfully used. “The workshop is important in that after being sensitised, everyone here will help assist in cascading the acquired knowledge to our respective constituencies or areas of work. “Such training seeks to also improve the quality of national labour market diagnosis and the ability to use policy relevant data over time in order to support well informed policies, national development plans and strategies, including poverty reduction strategies and decent work country programmes,” she said.