The Chronicle Belindah Mutayiwa While globalisation has resulted in some positive developments on the world arena, in Zimbabwe it has brought more harm than good as it has created social, cultural and  political upheaval within societies. Globalisation is a process of interaction and integration among the people, companies and governments of different nations, a process  driven by international trade and investment and aided by information technology. This process has effects on the environment, culture, political systems, economic development and prosperity, and on human physical well-being in societies around the world. One area that globalisation has had a huge impact on Zimbabwe is on the  cultural front as many locals have adopted foreign social behaviours and  norms like language, dressing, food, religion and many others. It is, however, interesting to note that the Westerners, who the locals  seem to envy and imitate, have not changed their cultures due to  globalisation or any other force. The history of the territory that is called Zimbabwe begins with one of the earliest forms of globalisation, namely colonisation. In the late 19th century, Zimbabwe was colonised by the British who were interested in mining the territory for precious metals. This was the beginning of globalisation in Zimbabwe, and as with most instances, its motives were not pure. Before colonisation, Zimbabweans used to dress in a “decent” manner but because of the influence of globalisation, most of the clothes worn nowadays are more revealing. Most of these clothes have their origins in the West or have been designed by Western or American designers. Agriculture is another area that has been greatly affected by globalisation as previously Zimbabweans used to produce traditional  crops which were grown using organic methods which did not involve use of synthetic fertilisers and chemicals. Nowadays Zimbabweans use conventional farming methods as well as eat refined foods and genetically modified products which are widely believed to be behind the increase in previously unknown diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and cancer. On the religious front, throughout the colonial period up until today, Christian missions have flooded Zimbabwe converting indigenous populations to Western religions. Current estimates show that only 24 percent of the Zimbabwean population remains strictly adhered to indigenous beliefs while the rest is made up of 25 percent Christians, 1 percent Muslims and 50 percent a fusion of both. Globalisation has also caused many of the environmental challenges being experienced in Zimbabwe including air pollution from industrial parks, deforestation to make way for settlements or agriculture, as well decline in certain wildlife species. It can be argued that in Zimbabwe globalisation has mostly succeeded in  channelling wealth to industrialised countries through exploitation of human and natural resources at the expense of the locals. — New Ziana.