The Chronicle Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau ZIMBABWE Under-23 coach Tonderai Ndiraya has pleaded for more time to shape his team after the Young Warriors struggled for cohesion in their Afcon qualifiers against Mozambique. They beat Mozambique 2-0 on aggregate to book a date against South Africa in final qualifying round set for June. “I think fitness is the most important thing in football, and sport in general, so that’s what we had been moaning about,’’ the coach said. “Apart from that, I thought we also had a big challenge in blending the two sets of players, the Europe-based players and the local players. “We had requested for a longer period but because of some logistical problems, we couldn’t have a longer camp and the foreign-based players also had little time with us. “We just have to keep working. But, I think, what we need is more time in camp, so that the boys will get to know each other more. “What’s important, going forward, is to strengthen the team, keep building the team so that we have a formidable side by the time we meet South Africa.’’ The Young Warriors coach revealed that they had wanted Admiral Muskwe in their team going into the return leg but he had to go back after the Warriors’ assignment against Congo-Brazzaville on Sunday. Meanwhile, Zifa have said they are still reconciling the figures related to the attendance and gross revenue realised from the Afcon qualifier at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. The match attracted one of their biggest crowds at the giant stadium as the Warriors dispatched the Red Devils 2-0 to progress to the 2019 Nations Cup finals. Zifa had a trial run of their new e-ticketing system but the scanning of the tickets proved a challenge given some gates at the giant stadium are not operational, some fans pushed their way into the ground. The association are saying, because they also sold tickets manually across all the 10 provinces, they will need more time to reconcile the figures. “The Zimbabwe Football Association would like to express its gratitude to the thousands of supporters who thronged the giant National Sports Stadium to cheer the Warriors to victory against Congo and their subsequent qualification to the 2019 Egypt Total Africa Cup of Nations finals,’’ a Zifa statement said. “The victory is historic and we are humbled by the full capacity attendance. “We are also grateful to our partners and sponsors who through their benevolence contributed to the success of the match. Warriors, technical team, sponsors, Zifa Executive committee, Zifa secretariat, Warriors supporters and various stakeholders surely worked hard for this game, and a victory on Sunday was just an icing on the cake. Thank you all. Together will achieve more.” However, the Under-23 Afcon qualifying match against Mozambique played at the same venue two days later was poorly attended, giving rise to the debate that the match could have been scheduled for Barbourfields. Congo’s loss has shaken the Red Devils’ camp with their captain, Prince Oniangue and his deputy Delvin N’Dinga, announcing their retirement from international football. When the Red Devils arrived in Brazzaville on Monday night, they were welcomed by widespread anger at home. According to the Congolese media organisation, Agence d’Information d’Afrique Centrale, Oniangue and N’Dinga have decided to concentrate on club football after serving their nation for the past decade. “The first consequences of the elimination of the Red Devils in Harare, Sunday, were quick – Prince Oniangue and Delvin Ndinga, respectively captain and vice-captain of the team, announced they were retiring from international football. “The two midfielders turned the last page of a book they had written together; (they were) introduced in the national team by (former coach) Ivica Todorov in 2008, five months apart,’’ read the report. N’Dinga (31), who turns out for Turkish top-flight side Sivasspor, played the full game against the Warriors on Sunday. He has played for Auxerre and Monaco in France and Lokomotiv Moscow of Russia. Oniangue (30), who plays for French Ligue 1 side Caen, could not last the distance against Zimbabwe and was substituted at the restart. Their Brazilian coach Valdo Filho is also under fire after failing in the mandate to help the team qualify for Afcon.