The Chronicle Mthabisi Tshuma REPORTS that Zvishavane radio station YaFM will be expanding to parts of Matabeleland South tomorrow has given artistes in the province hope as they are consistently dropping albums and singles for use by the station. This is the breakthrough the young artistes in the province have long awaited for – to have a radio station that will be listened to in their communities and play their music. Artistes in the province had mostly been relying on Bulawayo station Skyz Metro FM for their music’s airplay but unfortunately, even though their music was played, they could not listen to the station which only covers a 40km radius of Bulawayo. YaFM chief executive officer, Munyaradzi Hwengwere said the transmitter that will reach the Matabeleland South province will be switched on tomorrow. He said they would have road shows in the province to raise awareness about the station’s increase of coverage areas. “We’re planning to have a road show in Gwanda and Filabusi where we’ll link up with the artistes and find out what they have on offer. When we had a road show with Madlela some time back, we noticed that people love local music,” said Hwengwere. As the Great Dyke station, Hwengwere said, their mandate was to be highly active in communities in a way that uplifts artistes. “If we don’t provide artistes an opportunity to have their music played on radio, then we won’t be fulfilling our mandate as a radio station.” Gwanda up-and-coming reggae musician Bry will be dropping his third album on Friday, a day that people in Gwanda, Filabusi, Kwekwe and Insiza will listen to YaFM for the first time. A day later, Zhezhingtons will release a single titled Second Chance. Last week he released a single Ungithembisile ft Madlela Skhobokhobo. PM Records gospel singer, Zogah, is also expected to release his debut five-track album Inkosi yaMakhosi on Tuesday with Beitbridge house artiste Bhadilah releasing a single titled Woza Friday next Friday. Up-and-coming artistes Talent Khumalo and Langa Sibanda will in mid-April drop their debut gospel albums. – @mthabisi_mthire.