The Chronicle Mehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter A FIRST time call-up to the national cricket team for Ainsley Ndlovu has excited the Tuskers captain after he was named in Zimbabwe’s training squad for the one-day internationals against United Arab Emirates at Harare Sports Club next month. Ndlovu, a left-arm spinner, was in great form for Tuskers in the just-ended domestic cricket season, particularly in the shorter formats of the game where he led the Bulawayo-based franchise. The 23-year-old Ndlovu picked up three wickets for 23 runs in 10 overs against Eagles in the Pro50 Championship final played at Harare Sports Club early this month. His spell brought Tuskers back into the contest after a below par batting display, but Eagles went on to win the match by two wickets. Ndlovu is a product of the Durban-based Dolphins Cricket Academy in South Africa after being awarded a scholarship to Durban High School from Mpopoma High School. He is thrilled to have finally caught the eye of the national selectors and attributed this to hard work he has been putting into his game. “It feels really great; I have been working hard to get this opportunity. That’s what I have always been working hard for,” Ndlovu said. Asked if getting a national team call-up was always part of his plan at the start of the season, Ndlovu indicated that it was his major objective. “I just think I was a little bit patient and took it game by game.” Ndlovu said he would continue to put in extra work in camp to impress in his bid to get his senior national team debut. He carried his good form into the domestic Twenty20 competition where he hauled five wickets, as Tuskers were crowned champions in this format of the game. Batsmen Charles Kunje and Tony Munyonga, just like Ndlovu, have also been rewarded for their fine form on the domestic scene with national team call-ups. Skipper Hamilton Masakadza is in the training squad with other experienced players such as Brendan Taylor, Craig Ervine, Sikandar Raza, Sean Williams, Tendai Chatara, Kyle Jarvis and Elton Chigumbura. The team goes into camp in Harare today. The ODIs against UAE are scheduled for April 10, 12, 14 and 16 at Harare Sports Club. Zim cricket training squad Hamilton Masakadza, Brendan Taylor, Brian Chari, Solomon Mire, Tinashe Kamunhukamwe, Craig Ervine, Sean Williams, Peter Moor, Sikandar Raza, Timycen Maruma, Regis Chakabva, Kyle Jarvis, Tendai Chatara, Richard Ngarava, Chris Mpofu, Donald Tiripano, Brandon Mavuta, Ainsley Ndlovu, Richmond Mutumbami, Charles Kunje, Natsai M’shangwe, Ryan Burl, Elton Chigumbura, Tendai Chisoro, Roy Kaia, Carl Mumba, Tony Munyonga — @Mdawini_29