The Chronicle Tendai Mugabe and Fidelis Munyoro, Harare Bureau THE United Nations International Children’s Fund (Unicef) yesterday dispatched its regional director for Eastern-Southern Africa Leila Pakkala to Zimbabwe to assess how the UN body can assist victims of Cyclone Idai. Ms Pakkala met Vice President Kembo Mohadi yesterday at his Munhumutapa offices in Harare. “This meeting is about Cyclone Idai the one that has hit Manicaland, Masvingo, Mashonaland East and Midlands. “The people that you are seeing are coming from our African regional office in Nairobi, Kenya. She has come to assess the situation for herself so that they can assist us to mitigate the problems we have encountered and that the people have encountered in Chamanimani. That is why we are having this meeting. They are sharing their experiences with us and we are also sharing our experiences with her and how we have mobilised ourselves to mitigate the situation and how as partners they are also going to chip in,” said VP Mohadi. “They have been in it for a long time. They have assisted quite a number of such instances world over. Unicef is an international organisation so they are giving that sort of experience. We have agreed on quite a number of areas. They shall be meeting our committee on disaster, she will also be meeting country representatives and that she will also get briefs from technical people then chart a way forward on how to resolve the situation that has befallen us.” Ms Pakkala said the cyclone had serious impact on Zimbabwe. “It is very clear that the impact of cyclone on Zimbabwe was very serious. Colleagues from the UN family, from Government and civil society organisations are already in a number of locations carrying out detailed assessments but at the same time carrying out support activities in the areas of health, education trying to make sure that communities have access to water, have access to shelter – psycho-social support to those that have been affected is very important. We are here not only looking at the work that is ongoing but also what more needs to be done and how we can be mobilising inside the country and outside for this humanitarian response. It is also important to be looking at longer term development activities, infrastructure has been hurt, agriculture has been affected and how we can be supporting Zimbabwe to move forward not only in the short term but in the longer term in the best interest of the children and their families.” The Government of South Africa and businessman Mr Patrice Motsoepe’s family yesterday donated a combined R75million to victims of Cyclone Idai in Zimbabwe. The South African government donated R60 million while the Motsoepe family chipped in with R15 million. Both South African Minister of International Relations and Co-operation Ms Lindiwe Sisulu and the Motsoepe family handed over their cheques to Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Sibusiso Moyo at Manyame Airbase last night. Speaking after the donations Minister Sisulu, who was accompanied by the Motsoepe family, said the donations to Zimbabwe followed President Cyril Ramaposa’s call for the people of South Africa to respond to the disaster caused by the cyclone. “We have decided as a department of international relations to make a financial donation apart from other donations that are coming your way,” she said. “This is what we have brought to you at short notice to assist you provide the urgent relief to the affected,” she said handing over the cheque to Minister Moyo. Defence and War Veterans’ Minister Oppah Muchinguri commended the gesture. “We are in great pain and what you have done gives us a lot of hope when we find that we have friends around us who have a big heart, big hand who donate both in kind and cash towards the disaster to help us address the challenges our people are facing,” she said. Minister Muchinguri said climate change was real. She said the disaster that struck Zimbabwe, Malawi and Mozambique was a wake up call that must never be taken for granted. “This challenges us to be always prepared for natural disasters as a region and continent and put in place mechanisms to deal with such disasters,” she said.The donation will go a long way in our quest to provide assistance to the affected people.” Minister Moyo said the gesture symbolised great friendship between Zimbabwe and South Africa. He said the South African government and its people had shown empathy. “We look forward to such kind of interaction, assistance and brotherhood to continue,” he said. Minister Moyo assured the South African government that Zimbabwe would remain grateful for the assistance. Cyclone Idai has killed close to 200 people and left a trail of destruction especially in Manicaland Province. Government has released $100 million towards the disaster but it is not enough considering the extent of the damage.