The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Binga
THE First Lady Amai Auxilia Mnangagwa yesterday said her humanitarian work must not be politicised and everyone must benefit from her programmes regardless of political affiliation. She said this while launching the Integrated Environment Management Programme for Matabeleland North in Binga with the aim of empowering communities through self-help projects. The First Lady who is the environment patron launched the programme with 2 500 fingerlings being put in a 20 by 10 metre pond at Manyanda Primary School which is under Chief Pashu. The programme which was initiated by the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry seeks to enhance food security and empower communities in line with Government’s economic turnaround programmes and the Command Fisheries Programme. Speaking at the occasion, the First Lady said she is concerned about politicisation of her programmes despite her efforts to uplift livelihoods through humanitarian work. “I don’t want people to politicise my programmes. I am coming to you here as a mother and daughter to everyone as we want to work for development. As a mother I love everyone regardless of political affiliation or religion,” she said while joking that she wants to build a homestead in Binga. “This programme is strategic for the care of the environment. It will make our children to be more responsible through teaching for sustainable development. This will also result in availability of clean drinking water, improved food security and complement current programmes of supplementing feeding in schools.” The First Lady said the programme is meant to complement Government’s economic turnaround agenda. She pledged to continue to play a part in economic activities through various humanitarian programmes. Besides providing food and improving nutrition, the First Lady said, the fisheries programme will capacitate parents to pay school fees for their children. She commended government departments such as the Environment Management Agency (EMA, Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority (ZimParks), the Forestry Commission, the Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa) and security agencies for working together towards the success of the programme. “I applaud teamwork shown by various government departments and agencies and integration of water, climate and environment issues in addressing economic challenges in the country and I want to urge the community to protect and promote the environment for economic turnaround which is key to the Second Republic’s agenda,” she said. The First Lady castigated early child marriages, child abuse and domestic violence as she urged parents not to accept gifts and groceries from their daughters without knowing how they would have obtained them. Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Priscah Mupfumira said her Ministry is committed to translating Government policies into programmes that build resilience and empower communities. “We also have the National Command Fisheries project which is being spearheaded by ZimParks and has positive spinoffs such as employment creation. The availability of fingerlings boosts fish production and provides food thereby alleviating poverty across the country,” she said. Minister Mupfumira challenged communities to utilise water bodies in their areas for development. Minister of State for Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Richard Moyo whose speech was read by Mrs Agnes Makoni, a deputy director in his office, said the programme was noble considering that Matabeleland North is the hub of tourism. “I would like to express our great appreciation for this programme which if fully embraced will put us on the route to environmental sustainability. It’s our desire as a province to have all schools implementing this,” said Minister Moyo. He said the First Lady’s visit will open floodgates for more projects in the projects, as he challenged companies operating in Matabeleland North to give back to the community. Chief Pashu said the project will go a long way in improving people’s lives through employment. He called upon authorities to ensure there is sustainable water supply to the fish pond. — @ncubeleon