The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter BUBI district has released a 78-member squad for the forthcoming National Association of Secondary School Heads (Nash) Matabeleland North inter-district track and field athletics competitions that get underway at Mosi -oa-Tunya High School in Victoria Falls tomorrow. The event will be jointly held with the primary schools’ equivalent. “We have been in camp since Monday last week and we are now ready for the provincials where we hope to do well,” said Nash district head-in-charge of athletics Cain Ncube. Accompanying the athletes will be nine coaches, five technical officials as well as the Nash district chairperson Khumbulani Sibanda, the headmaster of Somvubu High School. Sibanda expressed satisfaction with the team’s preparations during their camping period. “Our training time was sufficient, it was flowing. We are satisfied with the technical knowledge imparted to our athletes and as Bubi district we are ready to compete,” said Sibanda. The team leaves for Victoria Falls this morning. Meanwhile, Mosi -oa-Tunya High headmaster Roland Sibanda said they are expecting more than 1 500 athletes and officials for the two-day event. “We are expecting 1 500 athletes and officials and about 4 000 plus spectators because this resort town has sport loving people,” he said. He said they had invited officials from the Matabeleland North provincial education directorate as well as the seven district schools inspectors and school heads from the entire province. Matabeleland North has seven districts, Bubi, Nkayi, Umguza, Tsholotsho, Binga, Lupane and Hwange. Bubi district Nash team Under-15 girls: Sibongile Mpofu (Siganda Sec), Nomvelo Dube (Siganda Sec), Modester Sibanda (Siganda Sec), Blessed Sibanda (Somvubu High), Nelia Ncube (Somvubu High), Bonginkosi Ndlovu (Dabengwa Sec),Prisca Moyo (Dabengwa Sec),Epiphania Muleya (Somvubu High), Sithembinkosi Ngwenya (Somvubu High), Nobuhle Mathe (Somvubu High), Samukeliso Ndlovu (Siganda Sec), Simiso Moyo (Inyathi High), Bonginkosi Ndlovu (Dabengwa). Under-15 boys: Kwanele Ncube (Somvubu High), Nkosilamandla Maseko (Somvubu High), Rodwell Moyo (Majiji Sec), Admire Siziba (Inyathi High), Brian Moyo (Somvubu High), Mandlenkosi Ngwenya (Gloag High), Brandon Ncube (Gloag High) Dylan Ndlovu (Gloag High), Bonang Ncube (Gloag High), Tashinga Bvukura (Gloag High), Freddy Ngorima (Gloag High), Khulisani Mpala (Majiji Sec), Enock Ndlovu (Somvubu High). Under-17 girls: Claire Denga (Inyathi High), Kimberley Mbengesi (Gloag High), Siphiwe Ngwenya (Somvubu High), Florence Tshuma (Siganda Sec), Michelle Sibanda (Somvubu High), Sibonisiwe Tshuma (Majiji Sec), Sanele Moyo (Somvubu High), Nomvelo Ncube (Somvubu High) Sidumisile Nkomazana (Somvubu High), Shamiso Ndamakuwa (Inyathi High), Odia Ndlovu (Sijaugwe Sec),Roselina Nyandeni (Somvubu High). Under-17 boys: Aaron Chapwanya (Inyathi High), Meliwethu Moyo (Siganda Sec), Lenon Nleya (Somvubu High), James Phiri (Gloag High), Lloyd Kamurai (Somvubu High), Arthur Zihanzu ( Gloag High), Prince Mekie (Gloag High), Mbongiseni Ngwenya (Somvubu High), Mthokozisi Sibanda (Inyathi High), Daniel Ngavi (Gloag High), Qhelabukhosi Ncube (Somvubu High), Thubelihle Tshabangu (Majiji Sec), Mengezi Sibanda (Gloag High),Mnanzeleli Thamzeli (Sijaugwe Sec). Under-20 girls: Sithandekile Sibanda (Inyathi High), Thandiwe Phiri (Somvubu High), Nontokozo Khumalo (Somvubu High), Cathrine Zondo (Somvubu High), Kudzai Dube (Inyathi High), Shalom Zivengwa (Gloag High), Blessing Marufu (Inyathi High), Princess Ndlovu (Sijaugwe Sec). Under 20 boys: Denzel Moyo (Gloag High), Edgar Mpofu (Gloag High), Phill Vincent (Inyathi High), Mkhalipheli Mlotshwa (Siganda Sec), Hloniphani Sibanda (Somvubu High), Prince N Dlamini (Inyathi High), Martin Mutambe (Somvubu High), Anelka Ncube (Gloag High), Omega Ngwenya (Somvubu High), Sindiso Mpofu (Inyathi High), Jerald Ncube Somvubu High), Nqobizitha Mpala (Somvubu High), Anele Ngwabi (Sijaugwe Sec), Meluleki Mpofu (Gloag High), Sidingumuzi Mzizi (Somvubu High), Likhwalethu Vundla (Somvubu High).