The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter VETERAN midfielder, Clemence Matawu, has boldly declared that Chicken Inn FC are ready to reclaim the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League title. Matawu (36), one of the oldest Premiership players and a former Soccer Star of the Year, did not mince his words as he declared that they are gunning for the title. Chicken Inn were crowned Zimbabwean champions in 2015 and Matawu believes they are ripe to reclaim the country’s coveted football silverware. “From the time we last won the league title in 2015, we’ve been pushing hard for the championship. This year, looking at the squad assembled by the technical team, I think this year is our year,” said Matawu. Last season, Chicken Inn finished on position three with 57 points, 21 points behind champions FC Platinum. It was an improvement for the club who had ended the 2016 and 2017 seasons on position four. They are, however, aware that the season will be a tough ride as FC Platinum are keen on defending their title with Ngezi Platinum Stars, Caps United, Harare City and Triangle United also among title contenders. Chicken Inn have beefed up their squad, making nine signings. These include the Ngezi Platinum Stars’ trio of goalkeeper Donovan Bernard, defensive midfielder Tinashe Chipunza and striker Clive Augusto, winger Malvin Gaki, former Dynamos pair of right back Phakamani Dube and midfielder Valentine Kadonzvo, central midfielder Sipho Ndlovu who joined the club from Bulawayo City and unheralded Nyasha Gurende. Midfielder Brett Amidu who signed from FC Platinum completes the list of new faces at Chicken Inn. The Gamecocks released 10 players, goalkeeper Wandile Ndlovu, utility player Physiwell Madhazi, attacking quintet of Kuda Gurure, Nicholas Muchadeyi, Darryl Nyandoro, Wellington Kamudyariwa and Adrian Banana. They also let go defender Kudzai Chideu, as well as the pair of Prince Kashiri and Sean Guchu who were registered under the juniors’ quota. Chicken Inn, who toured Malawi as part of their pre-season preparations where they played three games, start the season with a home tie against ZPC Kariba, followed by an away trip to Yadah, Dynamos (home), Ngezi (away) and then play host to defending champions, FC Platinum. Chicken Inn squad Goalkeepers: Donovan Bernard, Samuel Mafukidze, Pride Zendera Infield players:Phakamani Dube, Nyasha Gurende, Tichaona Chipunza, Marlvin Gaki, Brett Amidu, Valentine Kadonzvo, Clive Augusto, Sipho Ndlovu, Passmore Bernard, George Majika, Moses Jackson, Last Sithole, Guide Goddard, Ben Nyahunzvi, Xolani Ndlovu, Simon Munawa, Joe Nyabinde, Clemence Matawu, Innocent Muchaneka, Obriel Chirinda, Obidiah Tarumbwa, Nicole Mutatiwa, King Nasama, Juniors: Future Gumbo, Irvine Mukombwe midfielders, Nathaniel Moyo striker -@ZililoR