The Chronicle Mthabisi Tshuma LANCE HEBRON is not new in music circles, but little is known about the talented producer from Gwanda whose song Aeiou by Novuyo Seagirl that he produced scooped three awards last year. Outshining Sandra Ndebele, one of the country’s renowned musicians at the Skyz Metro FM 2018 awards, Aeiou scooped the best house track. It went on to scoop best house song at the inaugural Star FM awards. Born, Lancelot Hebron Ncube, the 23-year-old has managed to defy all odds and show that growing up in a small town does not make one inferior to their counterparts in the music industry. A school dropout from the College of Creative Arts in Bulawayo, Lance Hebron ventured into music in 2014 and set up a record label — Jahunda Native Creation alongside Quinton Nyoni, singer Zhezhington and producer DJ Drumz. He then tried his hand at producing but as a hobby before being motivated by his works to venture into music as a profession. “I started working with DJ Drumz at his home studio where we produced for local artistes. All I wanted was to give people from my area the chance to make a name for themselves. “I never wanted to be a full time producer,” Lance Hebron recounted. “But with the way my work was being appreciated, I pursued music as a career having dropped out from school when I was in Bulawayo. I released a house album which received a lot of airplay form Skyz Metro FM and ZiFM Stereo and this motivated me more,” he said. The album included a song by Nqgindi, a poet and a remix of Nengoro by Cynthia Mare whose video is being played on international music video channel, Trace Africa. Noticing how talented he was, Lance Hebron said his family motivated him to attend music school where he met the talented Novuyo. “After my family pushed me to take up music professionally, I surprisingly met Novuyo and we composed the song Aeiou in a classroom, just out of fun. “The song quickly circulated and before we knew it, it was playing on almost every radio station in Zimbabwe. It was nominated and outshone that of music gurus and won awards,” he said. The wonderkid said he draws inspiration from gospel singer, Takesure Zamar, his former housemate from back in the day. “I grew up with Takesure as we lived in the same house from 2005. We used to do music all day long although he focused on gospel most of the times. I’m glad it also paid off for him as he’s now with the famed Joyous Celebration. “I was really inspired by his move and this made me focus on music as a producer instead,” Lance explained. Lance Hebron who is confident that he will grow even bigger as an artiste this year, is working on a track with the sensational Tamy Moyo who has been nominated for several National Arts Merit Awards. “I’m currently working with Tamy Moyo on a track to be released soon and I can assure music lovers that this is definitely one to watch out for as well as more hits that I’ll be producing this year.” – @mthabisi_mthire