The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter THE National Blood Service Zimbabwe (NBSZ) will host a blood drive for men in Bulawayo this Saturday as it moves to beef up stocks ahead of the Easter holidays. The blood drive, dubbed the “Men’s Splash” was held in Harare last Saturday. NBSZ Southern Region Public Relations Officer Mr Sifundo Ngwenya urged men to come out in their numbers and give blood. “We are beefing up our stocks for the Easter holidays which are fast approaching and we need all Zimbabweans to play their part in saving lives. I urge men to come in their numbers. “We will be at Eveline High School on the 9th of March and at our offices at the main Post Office in the city centre. Let us roll up our sleeves and be heroes by extending a life line to our brothers and sisters who need blood,” he said. He said men aged 30 years and below will donate at Eveline High School while those aged 40 and above will donate at the NBSZ offices in the city centre at the Main Post office. “We thank everyone who has supported our campaigns and our mandate by giving blood and we urge you to continue with your selfless gesture,” said Mr Ngwenya. He said the illegal strike by teachers last month interrupted their operations as they could not take the blood drive campaign to schools, which make up the biggest donors. “We were interrupted by the disturbances in schools. Due to strikes by teachers, the environment was not viable for us to conduct any of our campaigns and we could not collect much blood,” said Mr Ngwenya. He said pupils remained the biggest and most consistent blood donors in the country. “Most of our blood comes from our pupils in schools and the school system is very important. We rely on the benevolence of the people but sometimes we struggle to convince the public to give blood,” Mr Ngwenya said. He urged motorists to drive with caution towards the Easter holidays as they are often characterised by horrific accidents. “We urge motorists to drive with caution all the time, particularly during the approaching holiday season. We hope that by the time Easter comes, our blood stocks will be adequate,” Mr Ngwenya said. He said although blood was available for free at Government hospitals, most members of the public were yet to show support for the Government gesture through donating blood. “More still needs to be done to encourage the public to give blood. “You may feel healthy and not feel the need as you think you will never need the service, however, an injury from a work accident or vehicle mishap might change your attitude for life when you benefit from someone’s blood,” said Mr Ngwenya. – @andile_tshuma.