The Chronicle Columbus Mabika, Harare Bureau
Sweden’s information communication technologies giant, Epson Europe, has expressed keen interest in partnering the Government in the digitisation of the country’s education system. This was revealed yesterday by Direct E-Learning International operations director, Mr Canaan Gatsi. Epson Europe interest comes after the installation of a 21st Century Learning Environment system at Lusitania Primary School facilitated by Direct E-Learning International, a subsidiary company of Microsoft, after it signed an agreement with Government. “Epson Europe was charmed by the launch of the 21st century learning environment concept at Lusitania Primary School. “They contacted us last week conveying their interest to be part of the digitisation programme of schools in the country,” he said. “The interest by Epson Europe to invest in our education sector shows that the President’s Zimbabwe is open for business mantra is now beginning to pay dividends. They just expressed interest on their own,” Mr Gatsi said for a start Epson Europe has volunteered to set up a Smart Class at a local school next month. A Smart Class is an advanced technology implementation for schools. It gives tools and other contents for students through the use of latest media presentations. Mr Gatsi said the Smart Class will be the first of its kind in southern Africa. He said Epson Europe delegation will be in the country in April to meet Government officials, players in the ICT industry, to assess the business environment and facilitate development of ICT business activities in the country. Mr Gatsi also said Microsoft is also in the process of considering establishing its Southern Africa regional centre in Zimbabwe. He said, once opened the regional centre will create thousands of jobs for ICT experts and technicians. “Our parent company Microsoft has also spoken about establishing a regional centre in Zimbabwe, which once negotiations with Government are complete, will employ thousands of TCT experts and technicians,” he said. Government is also close to luring American multinational technology companies, Google and Facebook, to assist in digitising the country’s education system
Primary and Secondary Education Minister, Paul Mavima, last week said as part of enhancing President Mnangagwa’s vision of a 21st Century education system in Zimbabwe, Government would modernise 6 000 schools through adoption of ICTs before year-end.