The Chronicle Mthabisi Tshuma A CONCERT meant to celebrate and honour former Mokis Connection frontman Themba “Boyoyo” Mathe, a rhumba music legend, is on the cards. The brainchild of musician, Madlela Skhobokhobo, the gig is set to be held when he releases his new single featuring Boyoyo. The two are currently in studio. Of late, artistes have been crying foul over the way people are celebrating the success of the country’s music legends after they die, not while they’re alive. This, Madlela said, needs to change. As he was performing at Filabusi Shopping Centre this past Saturday, Madlela told show attendees: “We’re going to do a concert for Themba soon just to fundraise and celebrate the legend. “He’s one of the few people I know who are naturally talented. Such people are very close to my heart.” He said his track with Boyoyo was meant to celebrate one of the people who uplifted the Kalanga language and culture through music. “A few months ago while I was at a show in Maphisa, Themba’s manager in Zimbabwe, Davy, was in attendance and he suggested I do something with Boyoyo. Knowing Themba’s creativity and style, I agreed. “In December, I worked on a rhumba instrumental with Mthabisi Moyo who produced the hit track Ngamnanka uSaMamoe for the single,” he said. Madlela assured fans that the gig will be a memorable one adding that history will be written in the country’s arts industry. “People are going to love the song. As you know, I don’t do the usual rhumba, my style is a bit different because I want it to appeal to people that don’t necessarily like the genre. “We want to make rhumba cool with this upcoming single,” he said. Boyoyo, who popularised Kalanga music during national events like galas, is the man behind hit songs Ibhara Ngamazinyo, Ndazi Ndazi, Irene, Wafa Wafa Mthakathi and Basi Boy. After leaving Mokis Connection in 2013, Boyoyo became blind in 2014 and suspects that the Mokis Band owner Morgan Ncube had a hand in the change of events in his life. However, this did not stop him from pursuing his music career as he went on to release albums that include Nansi Ndoda, Sengi Discover, Itsotsi and MaTouch Screen. – @mthabisi_mthire.