The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter THE Government has warned hospitality and tourism operators against charging unjustifiably high rates in Bulawayo during this year’s Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF). One of the biggest trade showcases in Africa will run from April 23 to 17. Hoteliers often cash in on the shortage of accommodation in Bulawayo during the fair period by significantly increasing rates. In a statement, the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry said it was gravely concerned by rates being charged by some accommodation providers in Bulawayo for the ZITF. “The Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry notes with grave concern the level of rates purportedly being charged by some accommodation providers in Bulawayo for the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair. The unpopular reaction to some of the charged rates calls for intervention by the authorities as we seek to protect the consumers while at the same time also promoting business,” reads the statement. “In this regard, the Ministry is in engagement with the Operators, Hospitality Association of Zimbabwe and the Tourism Business Council of Zimbabwe in an attempt to amicably resolve the problem as a matter of urgency.” “It is a known fact that we have been accorded the best status as a Sustainable Destination both in Africa and we have been internationally recognised as a must visit destination during the 2019. We have also managed to surpass the highest tourism figures of 1999 to an unprecedented 2.5 million visitors in 2018. We have also grown our tourism figures and we cannot dilute the positives garnered in the new dispensation, the Second Republic. We cannot price ourselves out of business; we must remain competitive with the region and international community in our pricing structure.” Already, there has been outrage by customers over the steep prices that leading hotels in Bulawayo have introduced ahead of the fair. African Sun, a hospitality management company which manages Holiday Inn said the prices for 2019 had been increased by five percent to meet various input costs, landing a standard room at RTGS$1 400. – @queentauruszw