The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent RENOWNED music video producer Vusa Blaqs says he enjoys the rivalry he has with fellow producer Andy Cutta as the two are cut from the same cloth and are achieving their dreams. Blaqs and Andy Cutta, who are both from Bulawayo but based in Harare, have been game changers in the music industry as they are responsible for the production of most videos that are being played on international platforms such as Channel O, Trace and Mtv Africa. For their outstanding works, both have been nominated in the National Art Merit Awards (Nama) Outstanding Music Video category. Jah Prayzah’s Dzamutsana video that was produced by Blaqs is up against Janet Manyowa’s Tinomutenda Neyi and Tammy Moyo’s Tekere videos which were both produced by Cutta. For Blaqs, being pitted against his homeboy is great as it creates healthy competition. “Competing against Andy Cutta is always the case as our paths always meet. We’ve been competing for a long time and I’m talking about friendly competition. “We worked together before and what we were trying to achieve back then (being game changers) is what we’re achieving now,” Blaqs said. “I feel like the friendly competition we have is something that uplifts the standards of doing things in our shared industry.” Blaqs said having Andy Cutta producing quality music videos keeps him in check. “If Andy does something good, I feel challenged to raise the bar and this raises the standard of the country’s music videos. And whichever way people look at it, that award is going to our home city which will be a great feeling. “At the Bulawayo Arts Awards, we were competing against each other and I won. I got on stage and he joined me and I think that’s a great display of goodwill towards each other.” In all this, Blaqs said he was thrilled to be nominated for the Namas for the first time in his career. “I’m very excited about the Nama nomination. Maybe it’s because I’ve never been nominated before as I hadn’t submitted anything. So you can imagine, first time submitting and I’m nominated.” “This nomination is breathing life into my passion and brand as well. I’d like to thank the organisers for it.” Nevertheless, Blaqs does not want to be ahead of himself as winning the award for him is not the goal as he wants his artwork to impact on as many people’s lives a possible. “Winning the award is an icing on the cake. But the bigger picture is the impact my work has on people. I get calls from as far as Ghana and they tell me that the music video (Dzamutsana) is playing in their home country. “I don’t even know how it got there. That for me is the biggest prize, although the silverware is an added bonus,” said Blaqs. Turning to his plans for this year, Blaqs said he wants to restructure his business Umsebenzi kaBlaqs and has roped in professionals. “For this year, we’re streamlining my services. Back in the day, I used to do everything for myself, like interaction with clients. I noticed that this is probably not such a good thing. “I may be a talented filmmaker, but it doesn’t necessarily mean I’m a talented businessman. I’ve engaged a few people who know how to manage a business and that’s what they’re working on right now.” Other than that, Blaqs has roped in interns whom he wants to impart his knowledge. “I’ve started a mentorship programme and have two people under me as there were many people, especially young filmmakers, who wanted me to share my knowledge. “When I started, I didn’t have the time and also never felt that I was good enough to teach someone what I do. I’m looking forward to seeing my interns or protégés having more impact than what I’ve achieved,” said Blaqs.