The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
WAR veterans have been urged to embrace the Zanu-PF restructuring exercise by positioning themselves for leadership roles in the party structures. Addressing war veterans at Stanley Square in Bulawayo yesterday, Deputy Minister of Defence and War Veterans’ Affairs Cde Victor Matemadanda said war veterans always complain about being ignored yet they don’t want to be in leadership positions. “Restructuring is coming in Zanu-PF and I want every war veteran to be prepared and be in the structures so that we solve our problems from within the party. “Let’s make sure people choose who they want not who the leadership wants. Let’s therefore organise ourselves and make sure we position ourselves for the restructuring exercise,” said Cde Matemadanda. He, however, said there were many challenges facing war veterans which are yet to be addressed. “We have to be our own liberators. Let’s work and make ourselves visible and be able to address our challenges. I’m happy that in the last election, Zanu-PF recorded an increase in the number of votes in Bulawayo after I advised war veterans to work harder and drum up support for the party. “The war veterans contributed immensely to the party’s victory. War veterans should not be strangers in Zanu-PF because it’s their party. Some complaints are embarrassing to come from war veterans,” said Cde Matemadanda. He urged the war veterans to shun tribalism and allow people to choose leaders who are willing to work for the party not for individuals within the party. “We have to endeavour to be strong as a party. Zanu-PF is a product of Zanu and Zapu. Zapu is a product of the first Chimurenga and the ideology of these parties was the same, which was to liberate the country. This is why we say the spirits of King Lobengula, Mbuya Nehanda, Sekuru Kaguvi and others are within Zanu-PF because the party accomplished their mission,” said Cde Matemadanda. He urged Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Judith Ncube to assist war veterans in acquiring stands so that they can build their own houses. Cde Matemadanda assured the war veterans that Government was aware of their challenges, adding that efforts were being made to address them. “Government is concerned about the welfare of war veterans. We know that their allowances are next to nothing looking at the current economic situation. Some have nothing to show that they fought for the freedom of this country while others died before being vetted. “I know that some are saying we always talk and do nothing but this time things will happen. Anytime soon vetting war collaborators and non combatant cadres will be done. About money, we’re engaging the relevant authorities,” said Cde Matemadanda. He said his ministry was pushing hard for the improvement of war veterans’ allowances and assured the nation that President Mnangagwa was in support of the idea. The meeting was attended by war veterans and war collaborators who included Minister Ncube, Deputy secretary for women’s affairs and Central Committee Cde Angeline Masuku, Politburo member Absolom Sikhosana, Bulawayo provincial war veterans’ chairman Cde Cephas Ncube and members of the national executive. – @pamelashumba1