The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A MAN from Matabeleland South Province is on the run after allegedly stabbing his friend with an okapi knife several times in the head leading to his death. Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson Chief Inspector Philisani Ndebele said Nkosilathi Ncube (23) of Dwaleni Village stabbed Ashton Ncube (18) of Ndabankulu Village on Tuesday last week. He said Ashton later died on Saturday at around 11AM while he was admitted to the United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH). “I can confirm that we received a report of a murder case which occurred in Dwaleni Village in Maphisa. The suspect who is on the run is Nkosilathi Ncube while the deceased is Ashton Ncube. Nkosilathi and Ashton had a misunderstanding on Tuesday last week at around 5PM over an undisclosed issue. “Investigations show that these men had a grudge from way back. They started fighting and Mr Lungani Ncube tried to break up the fight but Nkosilathi drew an okapi knife and stabbed Ashton several times in the head before fleeing the scene,” he said. Chief Insp Ndebele said Ashton was rushed to Maphisa District Hospital where he was further referred to UBH. He said Ashton died on the fourth day due to injuries that he sustained during the attack. Nkosilathi had been initially facing an attempted murder charge but was now facing a murder charge. Chief Insp Ndebele appealed to members of the public with information that could lead to Nkosilathi’s arrest to inform the nearest police station. “As police we would like to urge people to desist from resorting to violence in order to resolve disputes. They must use amicable solutions. “This incident comes at a time when all our police districts within the province have issued a three month ban against carrying of dangerous weapons. This is yet another incident which has been recorded as a result of a dangerous weapon. We urge people to be on the lookout and report anyone they suspect to be carrying a dangerous weapon and they will be arrested in accordance with the ban,” he said. Police in Matabeleland South Province have issued a three months prohibition order against carrying of dangerous weapons in public as part of efforts to reduce criminal activities involving weapons which are being recorded in the province. In Gwanda District the ban will run from March 5 to June 5, while in Bulilima and Mangwe Districts it will stretch from March 6 to June 6. In Beitbridge District it will run from March 19 to June 19. During the period police will intensify patrols and conduct stop and searches throughout the province. – @DubeMatutu