The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
SIXTY people were murdered in January this year countrywide compared to 54 during the same month last year, police have said. Police say the majority of murders emanated from trivial issues and suspected muggings. In an interview on the sidelines of the First Lady Interface with chiefs’ spouses in Bulawayo on Monday, Police Commissioner Charity Charamba said murder cases have been on the increase since December. “The crime increased drastically by 26 percent from 69 to 87 cases in December 2018 when compared with the corresponding period of 2017. January 2019 also recorded another increase, from 54 (in 2018) to 60 cases,” she said. “Some of the murders emanate from misunderstandings at beer drinks as well as domestic and civil disputes. In some instances the reason for the murder would be too trivial to such an extent that even the perpetrators themselves regret their actions soon after killing the victims,” said Comm Charamba. She said from the statistics, six females were killed by their female counterparts while 49 men were killed by other males. In crimes of passion, four females were killed by their partners while one male was killed by his intimate partner. Comm Charamba said Bulawayo province recorded six murder cases, the same recorded in the same month last year. “Members of the public are also being encouraged to respect the sanctity of life and make use of State apparatus such as the police and the courts to resolve their disputes. Alternatively, they can use traditional and religious platforms to resolve disputes as opposed to taking the law into their hands,” she said. Comm Charamba said cases of rape against juveniles decreased in January compared to the same period last year. “The crime rose by three percent from 272 to 281 cases in December 2018 when compared with the corresponding period of 2017. However, it is pleasing to note that it decreased by 28 percent in January 2019 when compared with January 2018,” she said. Comm Charamba said the majority of the cases were being perpetrated by neighbours and close relatives, who took advantage of the absence of the complainants’ parents or guardians to commit the crime. “The perpetrators mainly targeted adolescents, especially the 10-14 year age group who may be walking alone in secluded places. In some instances, victims fell prey to their parents or guardians,” she said. Comm Charamba said it was quite disturbing that cases of rape are on the increase in Bulawayo province where 13 juveniles were raped in January. Turning to domestic violence cases, Comm Charamba said it was pleasing to note that the cases decreased in both December 2018 and January 2019, compared to the corresponding months of the previous years. She said a five percent decrease was realised in December 2018 while a 22 percent decrease was recorded in January 2019. Comm Charamba said a total of 1 967 domestic violence cases were recorded nationally in January compared to 2 527 recorded in the same period last year. However, she said, Bulawayo Province experienced a disturbing upsurge in domestic violence cases with a total of 128 cases recorded in January against 97 recorded in December last year. Comm Charamba said most domestic violence cases usually result in murder and called on members of the public to make use of traditional and religious platforms to resolve disputes. She said a total of 102 suicide cases were recorded between December 2018 and January 2019. “The majority of these cases occurred in farming and mining communities. In some instances, male victims committed suicide after domestic disputes emanating from suspected infidelity. In other incidents, victims who were HIV positive committed suicide after failing to get counselling,” said Comm Charamba. No suicide cases were recorded in Bulawayo province in both December 2018 and January 2019. – @AuxiliaK