The Chronicle Pamela Shumba/Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporters BULAWAYO Provincial Affairs Minister, Judith Ncube, has appealed to people in the province to join the rest of the country in assisting with donations for people who were affected by tropical Cyclone Idai-induced floods. About 89 people died due to drowning while infrastructure was destroyed due to the disaster. In a statement yesterday, Minister Ncube said the province had already started mobilising donations for the affected people. “It’s with a heavy heart that I come before the community of Bulawayo to assist people who have been affected by floods in Manicaland, Masvingo and Mashonaland West provinces. “These people have lost their loved ones, their homes, livestock and livelihoods. We therefore need to come together as the Zimbabwean family and lend a helping hand to our fellow brothers and sisters during this difficult time,” said Minister Ncube. She said her office was accepting cash, toiletries, blankets, mealie-meal, medical supplies, drinking water, dry foods, sanitary pads, clothes, pots, temporary shelter and tinned foods. “I’m aware that churches, businesspeople, individuals and the community of Bulawayo have already started mobilising resources towards this disaster. “Basil Christian Church has already taken a leading role in mobilising donations for the cyclone victims and is handing over to my office. I’m calling for one concerted effort from Bulawayo so that there’s accountability of the donated items and expeditious transmission of the donations to the affected,” said Minister Ncube. She said donations could be taken to her office at Mhlahlandlela Government Complex, 6th floor, offices 6 to 18. The Minister said cash donations could be deposited in the provincial bank account, Zimbabwe Independence Celebration, CBZ Bank Ltd US$ account 012-20221070024 with reference “Cyclone Idai donation”. Meanwhile, thousands of Zimbabweans have mobilised donations via various platforms for Cyclone Idai victims. Most Zimbabweans are using social media platforms to gather donations including cash, clothing, blankets, food and other grocery items for the victims of the cyclone, while some companies are also mobilising funds for the assistance of the victims. In a telephone interview yesterday, Civil Protection Unit (CPU) director Mr Nathan Nkomo commended Zimbabweans for the unity shown through mobilisation of resources to assist victims of Cyclone Idai. “It is very good to see the spirit of brotherhood in Zimbabweans who took it upon themselves to contribute whatever they had towards the assistance of victims of Cyclone Idai and to complement government efforts to ensure that the victims have food, shelter and clothing. We have been receiving a lot of donations in cash and kind and more are still coming in from all corners of the country. We hope that this spirit is kept alive all the time when we have to come together as a nation and be in one spirit,” said Mr Nkomo. Mr Zenzele Ndebele, a Bulawayo journalist, is one of the various individuals who used social media platforms to crowd source donations for flood victims. “Such times call for us to come together as Zimbabweans and do something for our fellow brothers and sisters. Manicaland Province may be far as geographical locations are concerned but in this global community, they are a tweet away or a phone call away. We engage daily in these social media platforms therefore it is only right that we find ways to send assistance when there is a need,” said Mr Ndebele. – @pamelashumba1/@andile_tshuma