The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter A GRADE One pupil at Mckeurtan Primary School in Bulawayo died yesterday after she was knocked down by a speeding vehicle a few metres away from the school gate. Mbalenhle Sibanda (6) was run over by the car and died on the spot as she was crossing the road with her sister after knocking off from school. Her uncle, who declined to be named, said the family was devastated by Mbalenhle’s death and blamed the driver for negligent driving. “We’re told that the driver who was speeding hit her once and reversed and crushed her head and she died on the spot. This is devastating and we are saddened as a family by her death which was caused by a reckless driver,” he said. “The young girl was excited about going to school in the morning and she didn’t bid me farewell as she does every day. She just left like that. She was with her sister who usually collects her from school.” He said Mbalenhle lived with her grandmother as her parents live and work in South Africa. Mbalenhle’s uncle said they want justice to be served saying the driver tried to flee after the accident. “If he had not been stopped by other motorists he would have run away. The police have to deal with him or else he will cause the death of many children,” he said. When The Chronicle crew narrived at the scene, family members were cleaning blood from the tarred road while police were assessing the accident scene. Mbalenhle’s grandmother who appeared devastated was holding her satchel while calling some family members. Sources said the driver was arrested. Mr Patrick Sande, a resident who was at the scene said the city council should restructure the road as it has become a black spot. “There are flaws in engineering as you can see there is no immediate warning to a motorist that this is a crossing zone. This is a pedestrian zone used mostly by school children and the City Fathers should consider that. It is better that they make the road one-way because it’s inconveniencing drivers,” he said.  Bulawayo Provincial spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango could not be reached for comment. — -@tamary98