The Chronicle Business Reporter AT least 350 Chinese tourists are expected to visit Zimbabwe every month going forward under a new “Tour Africa-The New Horizon” tourism programme launched jointly by Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Djibouti and China this week. The four countries launched the initiative in Zheijang Province, China on Wednesday, which is being championed by a Chinese company, Touchroad International. Working in conjunction with the Zheijang provincial department of culture and tourism and the Zheijang Radio and TV group, Touchroad has announced the “Tour Africa-The New Horizon” tourism project, which will see a chartered flight with over 300 tourists, leading travel agencies and media houses visiting “Destination Zimbabwe”, the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) said in a media update. “The launch highlights a yield of tangible results from the strategic comprehensive partnership emanating from the MOU signed between the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry and Touchroad International Holdings Group in China during His Excellency, Cde ED Mnangagwa’s inaugural state visit in May 2018. “It is an exciting moment born out of the power of tourism development within a few months of co-operation,” said the authority. Mr Chu Ziyu, director general of Zhejiang provincial department of culture and tourism, highlighted that the Tour Africa-New Horizon tourism project would extend for the next five years and will see over 10 000 tourists from Zheijang Province visiting Zimbabwe. He applauded Zimbabwe for easing the visa process for the Chinese and that challenges on direct flights to the destination will soon be an issue of the past. Speaking on the sidelines of the launch, ZTA executive director for international marketing, Jeffrey Manjengwa revealed that last year Zimbabwe received 11 439 Chinese tourists, which is way too little when compared to other African countries like Tanzania, which received 20 000 in 2016 and more than 34 000 in 2018 respectively. “With such strategic partnerships this project will see the increase of tourism arrivals from China to Zimbabwe doubling in the near future,” he said. Head of the coordinating team and chairman of Touchroad international Holdings Group, Mr He Liehui expressed his passion in linking China to the beauty of Africa in particular Zimbabwe. “I am happy that we are moving ahead with this project. I have spent a great amount of time in Africa and I would like to see my fellow Chinese people explore the beautiful continent of Africa. Tanzania, Djibouti and Zimbabwe are amazing destinations that offer phenomenal tourism activities. We are very grateful to the Zheijang Province for supporting this initiative,” he said. In a speech read on her behalf Tourism Minister, Priscah Mupfumira, expressed gratitude for the unity demonstrated by Zimbabwe and the China through the tourism initiative. The ministry applauded the recently appointed Tourism Ambassador for Zimbabwe to China and president of Touchroad, Mr He Liehui, and the Zhejiang Provincial department of culture and tourism for the excellent work in making the initiative a success. A considerable number of African states have shown interest in the project, which has started with a package tour of Zimbabwe, Tanzania and Djibouti. Zhejiang Province has a population of approximately 58 million with 2.7 million people travelling out of China for holiday.