The Chronicle Business Reporter A NEW lodge built at a cost of US$1,5 million has opened in the resort town of Victoria Falls as the country’s tourism industry continues to entice investor appetite. Shongwe Lookout is the name of the new 23-bedroom lodge that is located in the suburbs and was built with funding by a mix of local and international investors. Jamie Henson, the lodge manager is a Zimbabwean who has lived in New Zealand for the past 17 years. He says he and his family were lured back by the opportunities in tourism. “We were looking at the statistics on tourist numbers in Victoria Falls, and realised there is a very positive future here,” he said. Mr Henson arrived in Zimbabwe last year and is grateful to good management that has positioned the new lodge on track to take its first guests from June 1 this year. “So far the response from travel agents has been fantastic. They love the concept of what we are doing and say they simply do not have enough accommodation in Victoria Falls at present,” he said. Mr Henson said Shongwe Lookout is targeted at “the more discerning traveller” looking for comfort and great value for money. The lodge will offer guests access to two platforms on a viewing tower, with vistas of the Zambezi River and spray rising from Victoria Falls, as well as a pool, restaurant area, boma area and bar. Mr Henson and his wife are excited about living in Zimbabwe. “My wife is from New Zealand, so we were a bit nervous about how she would adapt. But, so far, we are both loving it. There is so much happening around Victoria Falls, so many young people like us with a passion to make the town the best it can be. It’s a really positive place to be.” Last year saw Zimbabwe’s tourist arrivals jump 15 per cent on the back of positive international coverage of the country under the new dispensation. The business couple is confident that despite prevailing setbacks in the macro-economic environment, prospects remain positive for the tourism sector.