The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
GOVERNMENT has allocated about $22 million to local authorities in Matabeleland South Province under the devolution of power programme. Speaking during a Matabeleland South Provincial Devolution Conference at the Joshua Mqabuko Polytechnic in Gwanda yesterday, the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing July Moyo said the money will go towards water management, land development, infrastructural development and other capital projects that will help develop the province’s districts. He said Beitbridge Municipality, Plumtree Town Council and Gwanda Municipality had each been allocated over $4 million and the money was expected to assist them as they were set to take over water management from Zinwa. “Under the devolution programme Government has allocated at least five percent of the national budget each year towards supporting provincial and metropolitan councils and local authorities. This year that five percent is $310 million. This money has to be used to fight marginalisation in communities. We have three urban centres in Matabeleland South Province namely Gwanda, Beitbridge and Plumtree and together with Minister Perrance Shiri we are working on handing over the running of water to these councils as part of the devolution programme,” said the Minister. “The urban centres are the face of Mat South and therefore we have put just over $4 million each towards addressing the water issue. This money will help local authorities upgrade water systems because we believe their marginalisation is partly because of the water situation. Yes, this money will also address housing, roads and other projects but water is our first priority as the issue of water is the reason why some areas are disadvantaged.” He said Beitbridge Municipality had been allocated $4,1 million, Plumtree Council $4,8 million, Gwanda Municipality $4, 7 million, Bulilima RDC $1, 1 million, Gwanda RDC $1,5 million, Insiza RDC $1,7 million, Matobo RDC $956 956, Umzingwane RDC $1,3 million and Mangwe RDC $1,1 million. The Minister said it would be difficult to achieve President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s vision for the nation to become a middle income economy by 2030 without devolution. Minister Moyo said traditional leaders were also an important part of the programme and provincial councils had to work with them. Speaking during the same conference, Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce Rajeshkumar Modi said they had put in place several industrial development strategies in Matabeleland South Province under the devolution programme. He said some of the targeted areas were resuscitating and restructuring of distressed industries within the province, development of rural industries, formulation and implementation of the Zimbabwe National Industrial Development Policy (ZNIDP), development and implementation of industrial value chains, economic empowerment and implementation of local content strategies. Matabeleland South Minister Provincial Affairs Minister, Abednico Ncube said the province was committed to contributing towards the achievement of the President’s vision. Minister Ncube applauded government for devolving power to provincial councils and local authorities. He said the province would benefit immensely from the devolution programme. “Matabeleland South Province is endowed with numerous natural resources and human capital that if harnessed well will turn the province to be a jewel of Zimbabwe. As a province we have huge tracts of land that can be utilised for farming and large water bodies. We also have various minerals embedded in our rocky landscapes and huge tourism potential. With the devolution programme coming into place we will be able to explore various projects that will bring economic development to the province,” he said. — @DubeMatutu.