The Chronicle Fungai Muderere, Senior Sports Reporter PRIZE money for this year’s PPC Matopos 33-Miler Ultra Marathon has trebled in each category after the race sponsors put in $48 000. In 2018, PPC availed $16 100 as prize money. PPC Zimbabwe general manager for sales and marketing Nkosana Mapuma said about 650 people had thus far registered for the event to be held on April 6. “We think this will be great news for all participants that we expect to take part in the race as prize monies have been trebled in each category,” said Mapuma. He said they expected up to 3 500 participants this year following last year’s record 2 500 entries. The bulk of runners registered for the 5km fun run and 10km race. Organisers of the marathon have hiked registration fees, with the 33-miler (53km) runners paying $25 compared to $10 in 2018. The half marathon (21.1km) doubled from last year’s $10 to $20, while the 5km and 10km races are $10. There is also a category for wheelchair athletes. PPC Zimbabwe managing director Kelibone Masiyane said tomorrow they would conduct a registration drive at Zonkizizwe Shopping Centre in Bradfield where there will be lots of giveaways. Last year, Black Rhinos Athletics Club runner Andrew Chimbidzai won the tightly contested men’s 33-miler after summoning all his remaining energy in the final stretch to finish five seconds ahead of Nkosiyazi Sibanda of Blanket Mine. Chimbidzai completed the race in 3 hours 12 minutes and 23 seconds, while Sibanda crossed the line in 3 hours 12 minutes and 28 seconds. The Bulawayo Athletics Board (BAB) has indicated that Marko Mambo, who finished fifth in last year’s Comrades Marathon in South Africa, confirmed participation in the PPC Matopos Marathon. Chiedza Chikore won the 2018 women’s 33-miler in 4 hours nine minutes and 10 seconds, followed by Muchaneta Gwata, who finished 44 seconds later. Winners in both the men and women’s 33-miler will each pocket $3 000, with the runners-up getting $2 250. Masiyane said for the second-year running, they will adopt international standards and engage timing giants ChampionChip Africa to electronically time the 21km and 53km races. As a result, this year’s PPC Matopos Marathon also serves as a qualifier for the Comrades Marathon. ChampionChip is one of the biggest timing companies in Africa and is the official timer of top South African marathons, the Comrades and Two Oceans marathons. Masiyane also revealed that they had entered into a partnership with ZimParks to accommodate out of town athletes at discounted rates at Maleme Rest Camp all in a bid to spice up the event. He said Childline Zimbabwe, who pocket all the money raised from registration fees, will provide volunteers to assist in the smooth running of the marathon. — @FungaiMuderere