The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Business Reporter JOB creation cannot be achieved by established industries or foreign investors alone but through aggressive enterprise development by the youth, the Deputy Minister for Youth, Sport, Art and Recreation Yeukai Simbanegavi, has said. Speaking at the launch of a cosmetology hub in Bulawayo on Tuesday, she said job creation was Government’s top priority as the country moves towards realising the middle-income economy status by 2030. “This cannot be achieved solely through the opening of companies by foreign investors in our country but also through promoting the establishment of youth enterprises,” she said. “The rate of job creation no longer matches the rate of job seekers. Thus tackling youth unemployment is more urgent than ever for the Government of Zimbabwe. The mismatch between jobs and job seekers growth rate points to the need to increase companies that will create the much needed jobs.” Deputy Minister Simbanegavi said the cosmetology hub, a small-scale business operation for beauty therapists, was one of the six quick-win projects being championed by her ministry under the first 100-day period of the Second Republic. Deputy Minister Simbanegavi said the project was in line with the Government’s Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP) under the social cluster. “Today’s event is evidence of Government’s commitment to create the necessary environment for youths to pursue their entrepreneurial exploits in their respective fields,” she said. The hub will house 50 beauty therapists and will provide internship opportunities to an equal number of students with the aim of strengthening the capacity of key institutions towards poverty alleviation and minimising youth unemployment. Government is rolling out the project with the funding support from the African Development Bank. Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Judith Ncube welcomed the initiative saying it was a step towards youth empowerment in the city. “We are happy as Bulawayo that Government is showing efforts to restore our legacy. We have no doubt that through such projects we are going to our original status of being the industrial hub of Zimbabwe,” she said. Minister Ncube urged Bulawayo youths to take advantage of the hub to develop their skills and be real entrepreneurs. “I want to challenge youths on Bulawayo to embrace hard work. I encourage you to create the much needed employment through harnessing your entrepreneurial talents, dynamism, resilience and resourcefulness,” she said. Youths will be trained from various vocational training centres and do their practicals at the hub. — @tamary98.