The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter LAST season’s Castle Lager Premier Soccer League “giant killers,” Bulawayo Chiefs, have declared their readiness and eagerness to improve performance this season. Chiefs earned themselves the giant killers’ tag after claiming the scalps of champions; FC Platinum, runners-up Ngezi Platinum Stars, third place finishers Chicken Inn and city rivals, Highlanders. They went on to finish their maiden topflight appearance in 12th place above experienced campaigners, Chapungu, who ended in 14th and Yadah who settled for 13th place. With minimal resources, Bulawayo Chiefs managed to escape relegation, something well-resourced clubs like Mutare City and Bulawayo City, who are financed by local authorities, failed to do. Nichrut and Shabanie Mine are the other two sides that were relegated. Joseph Sibindi, the new Bulawayo Chiefs coach, who took over from Garthly Chipuka and Thulani Sibanda, said his charges are ready for the season. “The boys are okay and I can’t complain because they seem motivated to play. I’m sure if the performance they exhibit at training translates to match days, I believe we will have a good season. Remember, competitive matches are different from the training games and friendly matches, but what I’ve been seeing shows that we can effectively compete,” said Sibindi. Chiefs kick-off their season with an away game against Chapungu at Mandava Stadium on Saturday. They collected four points from the airmen last season after narrowly winning their home tie 1-0 and battling to a 1-1 stalemate in Gweru. However, this season they plunge into topflight football without midfielders, Gracious Muleya and Perfect Chikwende as well as defenders Last Sithole, Andrew Tandi and Polite Moyo, who left the club for “greener” pastures. Muleya is now with Chapungu while Chikwende has found a new home at league champions, FC Platinum. Sithole is at Chicken Inn, Moyo joined Ngezi Platinum Stars while Tandi is now with Black Rhinos. They also lost striker Stanley Ngala to newly promoted Manica Diamonds in Mutare. Despite losing a host of key players, Sibindi said: “The good part is that the response in training has been excellent. I must give credit to Thulani Sibanda, who did a good job to get players playing such football,” said Sibindi. “We can be a force to reckon with. We are no pushovers and are basically looking forward to good results in the first game. In sport we all wish to be winners but results are known after the game. Whatever result comes our way, we will accept it. What is key is to try and get results as well as to build confidence in boys and tactical responsibilities.” Sibindi, a former Tsholotsho and Bantu Rovers’ coach, has in his squad Ghana’s Francis Atsu, former FC Platinum striker Nigel Papius, midfielders Talent Machimbiridze signed from Highlanders and the former Chicken Inn pair of Michael Bhebhe and Tinashe Mthimkhulu. Central midfielder, Mengezi Dube, who turned out for Whawha last season has returned to the club. –  @ZililoR