The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter UNIVERSITY of Zimbabwe (UZ) won the Zimbabwe Universities Sports Association (Zusa) games held at the National University of Science and Technology (Nust) after claiming a total of 61 medals. UZ scooped 26 gold, 16 silver and 19 bronze medals in the three-day competition that saw the tertiary institutions contending in golf, volleyball, handball, cricket, athletics, hockey, table tennis, karate and taekwondo. Midlands State University (MSU) were runners-up with 23 gold, 16 silver and 18 bronze medals, while hosts Nust settled for third place with 11 gold, 16 silver and 11 bronze medals. Other participating universities were Africa University, Bindura University of Science Education, Catholic University in Zimbabwe (CUZ), Chinhoyi University of Technology, Great Zimbabwe University (GZU), Gwanda State University (GSU), Harare Institute of Technology (HIT), Lupane State University, Reformed Church University (RCU), Women’s University in Africa and Zimbabwe Ezekiel Guti University (ZEGU). MSU and GZU were dominant forces in athletics, while UZ bossed the swimming pool. HIT, CUZ, GSU, RCU and ZEGU anchored the standings after failing to get a single medal in all nine sporting disciplines. The Zusa games are part of the journey that will see the staging of the Zimbabwe Tertiary Institute Students’ Union (Zitusu) games in Harare where a team will be selected to represent Zimbabwe at the World Universities Games to be held in Napoli, Italy. Zusa communication and marketing officer Sibonile Madhoda said, “The association selected a number of medalists to represent Zusa in Ztisu games scheduled for June in Harare against our usual tertiary sports rivals Zimbabwe Teachers’ Colleges Sports Association (ZITCOSA) and Technical Education Sports Association of Zimbabwe (TESAZ). The selected athletes are Under-23 years of age and will participate in the 2019 Zimbabwe National Youth Games to be hosted by the Midlands province.” Men’s cricket gold medalists are set to represent Zusa in the Red Bull Campus Cricket, scheduled for September in Colombo, Sri Lanka. – @DecoDecent2.