The Chronicle Cloud Fusire, Harare Bureau YOUTH, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister Kirsty Coventry’s visit to Epworth on Saturday has brought renewed hope to this sport-loving community that the construction of the world-class Olympafrica Centre facility will be realised soon. Coventry toured Epworth on Saturday where she had first-hand appreciation of sporting talent in the community. She went on to tour the land which was allocated for the construction of the Olympafrica Centre where she called for urgency in the building of the facility. The land was invaded by informal settlers in 2015, delaying the commencement of the project. The project is the brainchild of one of Epworth’s sons, Musekiwa Kumbula, who approached the Epworth Local Board with the idea of setting up the Olympafrica Centre in the town. They then went into a partnership with the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee. “It’s so encouraging to note that people of Epworth have being doing well on national level every time and we know it is one of the community that is facing financial and infrastructural challenges. “But you have achieved a lot despite those challenges and it speaks volumes of the talent and passion the community have. “We need to nurture the talent we have in this community and for that to be achieved we need to work hand-in-hand with the council, especially with the allocation of the piece of land, that can be used to build the sporting facilities for the community. “This is our first visit to Epworth and to know about their potential Olympafrica Centre facility that was going to be here. “I’m moving around countrywide to see for myself and we have come here to see the land which was allocated to us,’’ said  Coventry. Coventry hailed the Epworth community for the dedication they have in sport despite the challenges being faced. “I’m so humbled and challenged by the way how this community has managed to produce top athletes and other sporting personnel despite the economic and facilities’ challenges,’’ she said. “You have not allowed the challenges to bring you down.’’ Epworth board chairperson, Batanai Masunda, said the Minister’s involvement will see the construction of the Olympafrica Centre commencing. “We believe that our Minister, as a former international champion (in swimming), will usher the spirit of championship in our community,” said Masunda.