The Chronicle Mehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE national sevens rugby team coach Gilbert Nyamutsamba is relishing the opportunity to see new players in action for the Cheetahs during the Kwese Invitational Sevens at Harare Sports Club this Saturday and Sunday. Nyamutsamba has called up a number of players that have never played for the Cheetahs before. These include Australia-based Hayden Wilson, former Zimbabwe Under-20 players Jerry Jaravaza, Martin Mangongo, Blithe Mavesera and Godfrey Muzanarwo. The Cheetahs coach wants some game time for the seniors while at the same time monitoring how new players will settle in over the two-day tourney. “We want game time, but most importantly to get a chance to see new players. We have identified potential and the best way is for us to give them game time in a tournament set up,” Nyamutsamba said. Being a home tournament, he sees it as an opportunity to throw in as many locally-based players as possible, as part of talent identification. “The local tournament gives us an opportunity to field as many locally-based players. We do not get enough of such tournaments that we can use for talent identification and team building,” he said. Nyamutsamba believes winning the Kwese Invitational Sevens would be an additional benefit as it is not their main objective. “Most of the tournaments we play in are knockouts or qualifying tournaments; therefore we are always under pressure for a result. The Kwese tournament is not result based for us but performance based, with the main objective being to identify new talent. Winning the tournament would be a bonus.” While some senior players will miss the Kwese Invitational Sevens, Nyamutsamba has the experienced Biselele Tshamala, Lenience Tambwera, Nelson Madida, Takudzwa Francisco, Boyd Rouse, Lucky Sithole, Shingirai Katsvere, Kudzai Mashawi and Brandon Mandivenga to bank on. Zimbabwe will field two teams at the Kwese Invitational Sevens, the Cheetahs and the Goshawks. Other men’s teams that will participate in the tournament are Botswana, Georgia, Mbare Academy, Malawi, Lesotho, Uganda, Zambezi Steelers and Zambia. In the women’s category, Botswana, Lady Cheetahs, Matabeleland, Zambia and Zimbabwe A will take to the field in the two-day event. It is the third time the Kwese tournament is taking place following the first two editions that were staged in Victoria Falls. The Cheetahs won the inaugural competition in 2017 with a 24-7 triumph over Namibia and lost 10-5 to Kenya in last year’s final. With the first two editions of the tournament not getting enough support in terms of attendance in Victoria Falls, the Zimbabwe Rugby Union decided to move the tournament to Harare. Nyamutsamba is looking to use the Kwese Invitational Sevens to prepare the Cheetahs for the Hong Kong qualifier in April where Zimbabwe will once again attempt to become a core member of the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series, which has continuously eluded them over the years. Cheetahs training squad Hayden Wilson, Kudzai Mashawi, Blithe Mavesera, Godfrey Magaramombe, Kudakwashe Chiwanza, Jerry Jaravaza, Takudzwa Francisco, Akim Dick, Tich Hwangwa, Martin Mangongo, Shingirai Katsvere, Theo Goredema, Godfrey Muzanarwo, Boyd Rouse, Tinotenda Nyawasha, Lenience Tambwera, Biselele Tshamala, Lucky Sithole, Tatenda Maunga, Andrea Banda, Tatenda Kasotora, Zephaniah Nkomo, Brandon Mandivenga, Tatenda Kandawasvika, Tadiwa Kandawasvika, Stephan Hunduza, Takudzwa Kumadiro, Nelson Madida, Dylan Jera, Brighton Matiashe, Brian Nyaude Team management: Gilbert Nyamutsamba, Gerald Sibanda, Amanda Tererai, Margaret Gibson — @Mdawini_29.