The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter VICE President Kembo Mohadi has urged the nation not to panic over the dry 2018-2019 agricultural season, saying the country has enough grain reserves to feed the nation for seven months. A prolonged dry spell destroyed crops in most parts of the country threatening food security. Addressing Zanu-PF supporters at a rally in Cowdray Park suburb on Friday to garner support for Cde Kidwell Mujuru, the party’s candidate in the ward 30 by election set for March 30, VP Mohadi said this year was a difficult one for the country but no one will starve. “This year is a difficult one for us due to little rains received in most parts of the country but please don’t panic. I want to assure you that the new dispensation will make sure that nobody starves. As the leadership, we’re servants of the people and we’ll make sure that every family in the country has food. “We have enough food in our strategic grain reserves. We have 500 tonnes of maize, which will last seven months and this is enough to take us to the next season,” said VP Mohadi. The Vice President, who donated 30 tonnes of rice and 60 tonnes of maize to residents of Cowdray Park, said he had been informed of all the challenges faced by residents and promised to address them. “I’m aware of the challenges that are being faced by Cowdray Park residents. I’ll make sure that these challenges are addressed to improve the livelihoods of the people living in this area. “I’m an actions man and I keep my word. We’ll show the people that Zanu-PF is alive and kicking,” said VP Mohadi. He commended the people of Zimbabwe for their patience and resilience during the current difficult times, saying the new dispensation would continue working flat out to turn around the economy. “I want to thank the people for their resilience. It’s amazing. As Government we’ll address all the challenges faced by the country. The new dispensation is only nine months in Government and turning around of the economy will take some time. I therefore call for continued patience and unity. “If the worst comes to the worst, we’ll evaluate what we have in terms of minerals and we leverage what we have underground. We’re a rich country,” said VP Mohadi. He said Government, as part of its efforts to turn around the economy, changed the indigenisation laws to promote investment and crafted the National Investment Policy (NIP) to enhance the ease of doing business in the country. The VP urged Zanu-PF supporters in Cowdray Park to maintain and preach peace as they work for the development of the area and campaign for the party and their council candidate. – @pamelashuma1