The Chronicle Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter ZANU-PF has urged Bulawayo Province to shun tribalism and allow people to choose leaders who are willing to work for the party during the ongoing restructuring process. The restructuring exercise started in the province on Monday with the national commissariat team from Harare overseeing the exercise, which started at cell level. Speaking during a restructuring meeting in Emganwini suburb yesterday, Deputy Politburo Secretary for Women’s Affairs Cde Angeline Masuku said Bulawayo residents should embrace the exercise by positioning themselves for leadership roles in the party structures. She said leaders should be chosen by people who are tribally blind and are objective enough to elect leaders who are efficient enough to lead Bulawayo. “Let’s make sure people choose who they want not who the leadership wants. Let’s therefore organise ourselves and make sure we position ourselves for the restructuring exercise and take part in choosing leaders who have people at heart,” she said. “As Bulawayo we do not want tribalism. We want people to live and work together as we restore our city to its glory days. No one is greater than anyone. We are all equal in our party and we strive on team work, unity and tolerance of one another, regardless of tribe or geographical differences.” Cde Masuku urged people in the city to remain united and create an enabling environment for development. “I therefore take this opportunity to call for total intolerance of individuals who want us to discriminate against one another. Only cheap minds champion tribalism,” she said. Cde Masuku said Zanu-PF was the only party that guarantees unity, inclusiveness and tolerance since it is bigger than all individuals. “Zanu-PF is the only medium which will unite us. Tribalism can only be eradicated in Zanu-PF as we champion inclusiveness and tolerance of each other for the transformation of our nation,” she said. Two weeks ago, Zanu-PF First Secretary and President Cde Mnangagwa dissolved all the party’s structures in Bulawayo and Harare. The party leadership said the dissolution of the party’s structures would address problems that have resulted in the party perennially losing elections in the two metropolitan provinces. The party’s National Secretary for Administration, Cde Obert Mpofu, said Vice President Constantino Chiwenga is superintending the party’s affairs in Harare while Vice President Kembo Mohadi has been assigned to oversee the process in Bulawayo. – @esinathy_essira