The Chronicle Sharon Buwerimwe, Chronicle Reporter RESIDENTS of Cowdray Park suburb in Bulawayo have said they have high expectations of the person who will be elected their councillor during the by-election to be held month-end and top on the list is addressing water problems. The by-election will be held on March 30 following the death of ward 28 councillor Mr Hapson Nyasha Ncube in December last year. Eighteen candidates are eyeing the council seat. Cde Kidwell Mujuru is the Zanu-PF candidate while the MDC Alliance has two candidates – Mr Collet Ndlovu and Ms Nomagugu Mloyi. Ms Mloyi has since been expelled from the opposition party after she refused to withdraw her candidature after Mr Ndlovu won in primary polls held after the Nomination Court sitting. In an interview, Bulawayo Progressive Residence Association Information Communication Officer Mr Kelebone Khabo said residents of Cowdray Park want the winner of the by-election to address water challenges in the suburb. “Cowdray Park residents want the incoming councillor to work on their borehole at Emasimini Business centre which has not been working for eight years,” said Mr Khabo. “Previously, councillors were not meeting the needs of the community fully and the residents were not satisfied. The community said they have one clinic that needs to be extended and they need satellite clinics.” Mr Edward Lubimbi, a Cowdray Park resident said besides the issue of water, health provision was a matter of concern in the suburb. “Our population is growing and we have a small clinic which needs to be expanded or modernised so that it looks like those in other townships,” said Mr Lubimbi. Women’s Institute for Leadership Development (WILD) Communication Manager, Mr Mthokozisi Ndebele, said they conducted voter registration in the area and some residents mentioned a number of issues that they need addressed which include the need to develop the ward. “We have been accredited by the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission to conduct voter education in Ward 28 Bulawayo Metropolitan which is Cowdray Park and residents have various expectations. They said they need the incoming councillor to spearhead investment and development in the ward,” said Mr  Ndebele. “The residents said there are supermarket stands at Emasimini Business Centre which were left undeveloped for many years and they want the incoming councillor to develop their shopping centre.” – @ sharonbuwe