The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Features Reporter Amanda Nolibo is sitting by the doorstep at her Selborne Park suburb lodgings where she rents with other students at the National University of Science and Technology (Nust) in Bulawayo. After failing to secure the limited accommodation at the students’ residence on campus, she had to look for a house to rent in the suburb, a stone’s throw away from the university.  She is in deep thought as she is thinking of more “lies” to tell the landlord as she has not yet paid her rentals. Amanda can hear footsteps which are freaking her out as she suspects that the landlord has come to demand his money. As if the heavens have been reading her mind, an EcoCash alert message pops up on her Samsung Galaxy screen, “Ecocash transfer confirmation RTGS $300 from Hillary Nolibo. New wallet balance: RTGS301.” Instead of heaving a sigh of relief, Amanda frowns, puts the cellphone on her lap and holds her cheeks as she continues to get lost in her thoughts. The $300 which used to pay rentals for three months last semester is now close to nothing as it only covers rentals for a month. “I’m sending him (landlord) $200 for my rentals and I’ll be left with less than $100. I’m expected to squeeze this money to buy food, sanitary wear and save some for printing out assignments. What miracle can multiply that money to suit my budget?” she asked. It would have been better had the money been hard cash but the money she is budgeting is electronic. “We buy hard cash for as much as 30 percent, which means I would need to transfer about $130 to get $100 cash. But what can I do, this is all my parents can afford,” she said. Amanda, whose parents are civil servants, is forced to shrink her budget to suit the amount she has been sent because she has siblings who also need money. “My parents are teachers and as you know their salaries don’t amount to much as the prices of goods and services are increasing every day. Last semester, they knew that with this $300, I would pay for three months or buy a lot of groceries. I don’t blame them, they have many responsibilities and this is a sacrifice,” she said. Amanda mirrors the struggles of many tertiary students whose lives have become difficult following the unfriendly economic environment currently prevailing in the country. The price madness continues although the majority of workers’ salaries have not been increased. Students are forced to trim their budgets to suit their parents’ economic muscle, which puts too much pressure on students. Accommodation which was last semester pegged at an average of $90 per room has been increased to at least $200 with some landlords demanding forex as much as US$50. The headache of accommodation is coupled with the price hike madness which has seen basic commodity prices increasing by more than 300 percent. A recent survey by Chronicle showed that the basic commodities that one needs cost around $300. Students said they are failing to cope with the situation, particularly rentals off campus and requested that Government builds more accommodation facilities for state universities. “Rentals are not compatible with what our parents earn because they’re charging from $280 per month going upwards depending on the quality of rooms. If you calculate, you’ll see that one uses almost $1 000 per semester just for accommodation. We ask Government to provide more accommodation which will be as affordable as that on campus,” said Alex Bandauko, a Midlands State University (MSU) student. MSU on campus accommodation costs from $280 per semester but students said the space is very limited such that many students rent in Senga, Nehosho, Daylesford and other nearby suburbs. Alex suggested that tertiary institutions closely monitor landlords who provide accommodation off campus to avoid overcharging. “These landlords are slowly becoming part of the university hence the administration should closely monitor them. They should not just dictate rentals unreasonably. There should be an agreed figure that they charge,” he said. Former One Nust Movement president and student leader Ryn Katayi shared the same sentiments, saying students’ representatives must play a leading role in negotiating rentals. “This is more of a national crisis but I believe as students, we have a critical role to play. We’re the ones who know the struggles we’re going through and we should present them to the administration. The Students’ Representative Council (SRC) should spearhead negotiations over off-campus rentals,” he said. Katayi said these challenges need a collective solution and students should shun blame shifting. Mrs Neria Dube, a civil servant whose son studies with MSU, said although State university fees were not increased, expenses that students incur make no difference. “You find that accommodation and food are now four times the price of school fees, which is the opposite of an ideal situation.  I pay $600 per semester for my son’s fees but I spend                      $1 000 on rentals and $800 on groceries,” said Mrs Dube. The concerned parent said she has since trimmed her son’s grocery list but the situation remains tough. “I suspended some luxuries and told him to deal with what is there but it still doesn’t add up. Government should do something especially on accommodation,” she said. Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Minister Professor Amon Murwira said Government had taken several measures to reconfigure the higher and tertiary sector but had not addressed students’ problems. “We have a qualification framework, we have talked about innovation hubs and now we want to focus on how to provide the students with accommodation. ZIMCHE has done a good job in making sure that they focus on this area so that we have minimum standards of accommodation,” said Prof Murwira. “We have to see how we cater for students who are outside campus. We want to see how their accommodation is meeting minimum standards that do not disrupt study.” Prof Murwira said Government is working to engage investors in construction of off-campus accommodation. “The issue of price hikes is a national issue but my ministry will focus on what it can solve. We recognise that accommodation is problematic and we’re working to engage investors in constructing more space. This means when students are paying, they will pay to the investors not Government,” he said. Prof Murwira said his ministry is making significant strides in addressing challenges faced by students. He said Government re-introduced grants for students at State institutions, which were stopped several years ago due to non-repayment, to boost access to higher and tertiary education and empower people, especially the youths. “Government is not in the business to make money but to provide education to the students. We’re trying to make education accessible for all. We’ve controlled fees and trying to address accommodation so when it comes to food, students and parents or guardians should try and adjust their budgets,” he said. — @tamary98