The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter TREASURY has released $2 million for the transportation of food aid in partnership with the Zimbabwe National Army and the District Development Fund (DDF). In an interview on the side-lines of her visit to Entembeni Old People’s Home in Bulawayo on Wednesday, Public Works, Labour and Social Welfare Dr Sekai Nzenza said the funds would be used by the army and the District Development Fund to transport grain. “We are distributing food in all the 10 provinces. On a weekly basis I give a report in Cabinet on how many tonnes of maize have been distributed. We estimate that over a million people are hungry as a result of the drought but nobody will be short of food. The challenge has been to do with logistics on how to get the food there. To overcome that challenge we have gone into a partnership with the DDF and the army. They supply us with trucks for the transportation of maize,” she said. “The agreement is already signed; they will start by delivering to some of the remote places so that we get food at the district and ward level. That is now happening. We needed to support them financially. So we requested money from Treasury and we received some money through our Ministry. We received $2 million for transportation. $1 million to DDF and another to the army. We hope to ensure that those trucks will go as far as the remotest village.” The Minister also said Government has completed modalities to roll out the food for work programme. Meanwhile, in her address at Entembeni Old People’s Home, Dr Nzenza said it was everyone’s responsibility to look after the elderly. She said Government was working on a national strategy on how the State could help take care of the elderly. “We have not come up with a national strategy on how to address problems affecting the elderly. We need to work together in assisting the elderly because they worked for us. We should honour and respect them. They have wisdom that we do not have. Wisdom that is shared from generation to generation,” Dr Nzenza said. She urged officials in her Ministry not to neglect institutions that look after the elderly. The Minister also brought groceries for institutions that look after the elderly in the city before sharing a meal with those staying at Entembeni. Entembeni Old People’s Home is home to 33 senior citizens; six females and 27 males. One of them is a 101-year-old man. Present at the event was Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Judith Ncube who implored the community not to neglect the elderly. She said she keeps engaging Dr Nzenza when there are challenges affecting the vulnerable. Bulawayo Mayor Councillor Solomon Mguni, who was also in attendance, said council will fumigate the home, following concerns that mosquitoes were a menace in the area. — @nqotshili