The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Reporter KENYAN President Uhuru Kenyatta has declared three days of mourning the death of former President Robert Mugabe and ordered flags in that country to be flown at half-mast beginning this morning to Monday evening. In a statement posted on the official Presidential website yesterday, President Kenyatta said the honour was a sign of respect for a “shining beacon” of Africa’s liberation struggle and an African hero. “As a mark of respect for the memory of this African hero and friend of our country, by the authority vested in me as President of the Republic of Kenya, I hereby order and direct that the flag of the Republic of Kenya shall be flown at half-mast at the State House and upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels of the Republic of Kenya and throughout the Republic of Kenya from dawn on Saturday the 7th September, 2019 until sunset, on Monday the 9th September, 2019,” he said. “Today, the 6th of September, 2019, Kenya has lost a close friend following the passing of HE Comrade Robert Gabriel Mugabe. I take this opportunity on my own behalf, that of my family and the people of the Republic of Kenya to offer my deepest heartfelt condolences to Mrs Grace Mugabe, the entire family and the people of the great Republic of Zimbabwe. “Comrade Mugabe was a shining beacon of Africa’s liberation struggle, an icon that led Zimbabwe in its liberation struggle from colonialism to independence. He was also an embodiment of the Pan African spirit, offering immeasurable assistance to his neighbour South Africa, in their struggle to end apartheid and in his steady insistence that Africa’s problems required African solutions.” President Kenyatta said Cde Mugabe spent a lifetime challenging Africa to find its place and voice among the community of nations and stood tall for all these and many other achievements. He said Kenya and Zimbabwe enjoy strong cordial relations founded on the shared struggle against colonialism and for self-determination throughout Cde Mugabe’s tenure as President. “HE Mugabe maintained close relationships with Kenya, visiting Kenya on several occasions and the last such occasion was during TICAD VI in 2016. It is this close relationship that has seen Kenya and Zimbabwe assist each other to build capacities in various fields. We will remember him for nurturing a strong and growing relationship between Kenya and Zimbabwe,” President Kenyatta said. President Mnangagwa, who announced former President Mugabe’s death through his official Twitter account yesterday morning, said the nation had lost an icon of liberation and Pan Africanist. “Cde Mugabe was an icon of the liberation struggle, a pan Africanist who dedicated his life to the emancipation and empowerment of his people. His contribution to the history of our nation and continent will never be forgotten. May his soul rest in eternal peace,” he said. Several leaders across the globe also paid tribute to Cde Mugabe. — @mashnets