The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter WAR veteran and former deputy minister, Cde Jane Lungile Ngwenya, yesterday described the late former President Cde Robert Mugabe as a brave man who stood for what he believed in and a determined leader who was passionate about education. Cde Ngwenya (86) a former Deputy Minister of Labour, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare, who now lives in Bulawayo’s Coronation Old People’s Home, said Cde Mugabe was naturally a teacher who was passionate about education and respected the role of women in all sectors. She said Cde Mugabe lived long because he was not an “all over the place person” and lived a healthy life. “I met Cde Mugabe in 1960 during the first congress of the National Democratic Party (NDP) and I worked with him after I was selected the secretary for publicity. I was the only woman in a national executive with 60 people. “Cde Mugabe was a brave man who was not afraid to say out his thoughts. He was a family man and naturally a teacher who loved reading books, a culture that I learnt from him. He even taught me to have a dictionary when reading so that I check the meaning of words I don’t understand,” said Cde Ngwenya. The war veteran said being the only woman in the NDP executive, she was the most protected person because Cde Mugabe respected women. “He had so much respect for women and admired their work in all sectors of the economy. I was the most protected person in the party at that time. He was always keen to listen to concerns raised by women. “He was also a man who hated tribalism. People believed that Zapu was for the Ndebele people but he always reminded them that he also came from Zapu,” said Cde Ngwenya. She said she got close to the First Family after she was assigned by the NDP to fetch his wife, Sally from Ghana. “Cde Mugabe was already married to Sally but she was still in Ghana. I was assigned by the party to go and fetch her and from then we got really close. “Because of the close relationship with Sally, I would go to the State House with no appointment. Cde Mugabe also regarded me as his sister because we shared the totem, Ngwenya. “I had their direct line and I was allowed to call anytime. They would also invite me and Cde Mugabe would sometimes say muroora wako arikukuda kuno kuti muzodya mhiripiri dzake dzeku Ghana (Your sister-in-law wants you to visit so that you eat her spicy food from Ghana). Some people would come through me to see the President and he trusted me,” said Cde Ngwenya. She said that when there was a loss of a loved one in her family, Cde Mugabe and Sally would call to comfort her, adding that when Sally fell ill, she visited her a couple of times. Cde Ngwenya said the country had lost a great leader, who was always determined to see his country develop and his people live better lives. “I want to assure the Mugabe family that we’re with them in mourning and we’re praying for them and Cde Mugabe to rest in eternal peace. “He was human and he surely made mistakes but he was also a great man. From the day I heard that he had passed on I have been praying for him and his family,” said Cde Ngwenya. She added that she would have loved to attend Cde Mugabe’s funeral but unfortunately she can’t as she now struggles to walk. She urged the nation to unite and stop being used by external forces who are interested in the country’s wealth. “We’re being used by the enemy to fight one another and this is a major setback when it comes to development in the country. America and Britain don’t sleep. As we sleep they are planning day and night on how to cause chaos not only in Zimbabwe but in Africa. “This is why there are xenophobic attacks in South Africa. We’re being used to fight against each other,” said Cde Ngwenya. She said some leaders were expressing sympathy when Cde Mugabe died yet they hated him and never talked to him because he fought against negative external forces. — @pamelashumba1.