The Chronicle Sharon Buwerimwe, Court Reporter A MAN from Bulawayo breathed a sigh of relief after he was acquitted of allegedly brutally axing his friend over a snooker game. It had been alleged that Bayethe Nyathi (28) from Cowdray Park suburb struck Mr Adam Mpofu (33) with an axe on his mouth, head, on his back and twice on his right leg. It was also alleged that Nyathi had previously stabbed Mr Mpofu in a misunderstanding over a snooker game and Mpofu did not report the matter. As they were playing the game, a similar dispute arose and Mr Mpofu threatened to report Nyathi to the police. Nyathi took out a small axe that he was hiding in his jacket and attacked Mr Mpofu. West Commonage magistrate Ms Sibongile Marondedze said the State failed to prove that Nyathi attacked Mr Mpofu. “In coming up with the judgment, the court considered evidence that was presented and it’s clear that Nyathi didn’t commit the alleged offence. He’s therefore acquitted and discharged,” said magistrate Marondedze. Prosecuting, Ms Samantha Gubede said the alleged offence occurred on June 15 this year at around 8PM at Magadzire tuck shop in Cowdray Park. “The two had a misunderstanding and Mr Mpofu left for home and was followed by Nyathi who struck him with an axe,” she said. “He struck him with an axe on his mouth and Mr Mpofu lost his front teeth. Nyathi also pulled out an okapi knife from his pocket and stabbed him on his back.” Mr Mpofu testified in court that Nyathi was a dangerous person as he had previously stabbed him in a dispute over a snooker game. He said Nyathi told him that he was not afraid of the police and also threatened to kill him. “Nyathi said such issues will make you lose your teeth ‘ungazenzisa’, I want to discipline you that even police will admit that you were indeed assaulted when you go report,” Mr Mpofu said. Mr Mpofu sustained injuries on his head and deep cuts on his leg and back. The court heard that Mr Mpofu screamed for help and was rescued by a passerby who took him to Mpilo Central Hospital. The matter was reported leading to Nyathi’s arrest. — @sharonbuwe