The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter A Presidential delegation from Namibia’s Omaheke province is expected in the country today to tour capital projects in Matabeleland North as the two provinces prepare to sign Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) in various economic sectors. The two countries recently signed seven bilateral agreements under the 9th Zimbabwe-Namibia Joint Permanent Commission on Cooperation (JPCC) where President Mnangagwa and his counterpart, Hage Geingob undertook to further strengthen economic ties between the two countries. Relations between Zimbabwe and Namibia date back to the days of the two countries’ liberation struggle . The two countries are now working on promoting Small to Medium Enterprises with particular focus on women, joint trade and economic co-operation, information and media, science and technology development and mutual customs administrative assistance. Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Minister Richard Moyo said he will be welcoming his Namibian counterpart Governor Festus Ueitele today ahead of the weeklong tour which will result in signing of MoUs and twinning of the two provinces. Omaheke Province is located in the eastern part of Namibia and has an estimated population of 71 000 and Gobabis is the provincial capital. Lupane is the capital for Matabeleland North. This is a reverse visit after Minister Moyo toured some projects in Namibia recently. “The Governor for Namibian Omaheke province and his delegation are on their way and the tour will start tomorrow (today),” said Minister Moyo. He said Matabeleland North with vast untapped natural resources, stands to benefit from the twinning arrangement. The province boasts of the country’s prime tourism and is one of the Special Economic Zones stretching from Kazungula on the border with Botswana, Namibia and Zambia down to Binga and Kariba along Zambezi River. “We will be signing MoUs with Omaheke province as we seek to twin with them in areas of livestock, agriculture, fisheries, crocodile farming and other projects. We visited them recently and they showed us around their projects. There are opportunities for us especially in livestock which can boost our provincial herd because they have good breeds and viable pen fattening projects,” said Minister Moyo. He said the programme will start at Mhlahlandlela Government Complex in Bulawayo where he will meet the visiting delegation at his office before going to Bubi District to tour Queen’s Mine, Siqeduthando Mine and BSSMA Mine. Tomorrow they will tour Imbizo Farm, Mahlangu Beef pedigree farm, Inala Farm, Randall dairy farm and Mcdonald Bricks in Umguza. On Wednesday the delegation will proceed to Lupane and tour Sindombe Timber and charcoal production concession, Lupane Women’s Centre, Lupane State University and Arda Jotsholo farm before departing for Binga, where on Thursday they will visit the crocodile farm, Chibwatata Hot Springs, Binga Craft Centre and Batonga Museum. On the same day they will proceed to Hwange to tour Mishingo Trading and Makomo Resources. On Friday, the delegation will proceed to Victoria Falls to tour BB7 and CBZ housing projects and Victoria Falls Hotel Recycling plant. A closing meeting will be held at the Victoria Falls Municipal boardroom where the MoUs will be signed. The delegation will also tour the Rainforest and curio markets. Meanwhile, Minister of State for Presidential Affairs in charge of Implementation and Monitoring Joram Gumbo will visit the province starting Wednesday for a three-day tour of Government’s 100-Day Cycle programmes in the province. Minister Gumbo started the tour in Harare last week and will visit Matabeleland North on Wednesday to tour Hwange community based tourism projects in Hwange National Park, United College of Education (UCE) Hwange campus and the Victoria Falls power sub-station. Minister Moyo said he will join his counterpart in Government for the tour of the teacher’s college in Hwange and tour of the Victoria Falls projects.  — @ncubeleon