The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent YOUTHS in Matabeleland South Province have appealed to Government to revise requirements for accessing facilities under the Empower Bank as they were beyond the reach of most young people in rural areas. Speaking recently during the launch of the Matabeleland South youth key demands programme organised by Community Youth Development Trust, the youths said collateral required by the Empower Bank makes it difficult for them to access loans. The youths also complained that those in remote parts of the province have limited access to information. “I stay in Bulilima and most of the time we don’t receive information on empowerment programmes for youths on time. “We have limited access to information as the rural folk and as a result some opportunities pass us and only youths in urban areas get to benefit. “If we could access this information on time then we could also take up the opportunities,” said Miss Tahana Dube from Bulilima District. “There is also need for Government to revise the requirements in the form of collateral for one to access facilities under the Empower Bank. “The current requirements make it difficult for the poor youths who may not own assets such as cars and houses.” In an interview after the meeting CYDT project officer, Ms Linda Mpofu said their programme seeks to unpack the political, economic and social key demands by youths in Matabeleland South which would then be a guide for various stakeholders within various arms of governance. She said her organisation, working with other partners embarked on a consultative process of documenting key demands from youths across the province. Ms Mpofu said 898 youths from all seven districts in the province were consulted. “The broader objective is to bring to the public domain youth priority demands for collective advocacy with the hope that this will go a long way in informing our leaders of the gaps that exist as a far as youth empowerment and development in concerned,” she said. “Under political key demands the youths are appealing to leaders to desist from using them as pawns of violence, creation of a conducive environment that empowers young people to assume leadership roles at government and political party levels. “They have also called for empowerment of young women in accessing opportunities of assuming leadership positions and they also want to benefit from resources in their communities among other issues.” Ms Mpofu said on economic demands, youths called for adequate information on empowerment programmes targeting them. She said under social issues youths called for more opportunities to assume leadership positions. Ms Mpofu said the youths also called for prioritisation of women’s sexual reproductive health through provision of sanitary wear especially for women in rural areas and remote areas. She said there was also need for local authorities to develop and implement youth empowerment policies that promote youth participation.—@DubeMatutu