The Chronicle Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter CIWU 1-3 Talen Vision TALEN Vision piled more pressure on Southern Region Division One Soccer League title rivals, Bulawayo City, when they cruised to an impressive 3-1 victory over CIWU at Luveve Stadium yesterday. Grey Kufandada continued with his purple patch when he scored a brace for the title aspirants. Adonis Nyoni chipped in with the other goal to take his goal scoring tally to 10 this season. CIWU got their consolation from Muziwakhe Dhlamini on the stroke of full-time. Kufandada, who scored four goals last weekend in the 13-0 drubbing of Moto Moto, has now scored nine league goals. The striker has combined well with the experienced Obidiah Tarumbwa and Nyoni to create a deadly attacking trio in the second half of the season. With the victory, Vision extended their unbeaten run to 22 games and opened a seven point lead over Bulawayo City. The municipal side’s title credentials will be put to the test this afternoon when they face ZPC Hwange at Ingangula. A trip to the mining town is every team’s nightmare as ZPC Hwange has made their home ground a fortress over the years. City, who are fresh from a 5-0 victory over army side Indlovu Iyanyathela will be hoping to continue with that form going into today’s encounter. They will pin their hopes on in-form striker, Darryl Nyandoro, who scored a brace in their last outing. Nyandoro has scored six goals for City since he joined in the mid-season window. The former Chicken Inn striker together with the experience of Christopher Samakweri and Zibusiso Sibanda will be key in their quest to collect maximum points. Meanwhile, an interesting derby is on the cards at Crescent when Bosso 90 face Ajax Hotspurs in a potentially explosive encounter. Fixtures Today: Moto Moto v Makomo (Mpumalanga 3PM), Mainline v Casmyn (Plumtree 3PM), ZPC Hwange v Byo City (Ingagula 12PM), Ajax Hotspurs vs Bosso 90 (Crescent 12pm), Binga Pirates vs Indlovu Iyanyathela (Binga 3PM) Sunday: Mosi Rovers v Toronto (Chinotimba 3PM). – @innocentskizoe