The Chronicle THE wedding of . . . David Mawoko, son of the late Mr Arnold Mawoko and Mrs Chiedza Mudzingwa and Nobukhosi Dube, daughter of Mr Samuel Dube and the late Mrs Loice Dube. I met my wife . . . Nobukhosi aka Smomo at Robert Mugabe International Airport in May 2018 when I was travelling to the United Arab Emirates for work. I was so focused on my travel but the moment I saw her, I just forgot about everything and had my eyes on her, even though she did not notice. Fortunately we were on the same flight so I gave her some space but I was watching her closely. When we reached Abu Dhabi, I had to make my move before it was too late. I approached her and had a bit of conversation. She was so innocent and had no idea she had just met her soul mate. After a while, I contacted her on Facebook and I was able to get her phone number. I arranged a couple of dates and it wasn’t easy as it took a while to convince her and to show her that I was Mr Right. After a couple of dates, we fell in love and I realised what we had was so special and I had to make her mine for life. How did you propose . . . Well, after a couple of months, I knew I had to mark my territory because the kind of love I had was something I had never experienced before. I bought a ring and planted it at a certain place in the desert. So I invited her for a date and we went to the desert. She thought it was just an adventure and I pretended like I had found some lost treasure chest. I asked her to open and boom there was the ring. She was shocked and when she turned, I was on my knees and asked her to marry me. The answer was hell yes!! How did you break the news to your family . . . Breaking the news wasn’t a very difficult part of the process. I called my family back home to let them know about the step I had taken. Everyone was pleased and could not wait for the wedding. Did you face any challenges preparing for the wedding? Yes. Because we live in the UAE, we had to find contacts back home to plan the wedding. It was very difficult because we were doing business with people that we had never met. We met all service providers just a week before the wedding and there was a lot to be done in that week. It was very stressful and exhausting but I was glad all service providers were very professional and organised everything well. We chose . . . The White Porch in Hillside, Bulawayo for our wedding ceremony and reception after a couple of recommendations. It was the kind of place we were looking for as it is a very quiet place with beautiful greenery. It was not too popular which made it the perfect place for our special day. Favourite part of the wedding was . . . Signing of the marriage certificate. It was the most breathtaking part of the wedding as we realised that we both had decided to commit to each other officially. The feeling was unexplainable and there is no way to make anyone understand. Wedding dress . . . first dress was a white Couture designer ball gown with exquisite handmade details from top to bottom. The second one was a traditional dress which had a traditional hat and handmade bangles and necklace. Wedding colours . . . White, Yellow and Green. The cake was a . . . three-tier white and yellow cake which had marvelous detail and an elegant cake topper. It was accompanied by two more individual fruit cakes with amazing details. The bridal team . . . was eight amazing personalities. My brother, best friend and two mini grooms as well as two bridesmaids, two mini brides and one flower girl. Guest List . . . 100. MC . . . Mc Nduza. Photography was provided by . . . O.R.G Media. Entertainment was provided by . . . KAISA Audio Works. Budget . . . USD$15 000. Honeymoon . . . Maldives. –If you want your wedding to be featured on our Wedding of the Week column, please feel free to get in touch with the Showbiz Desk on 0292-888871-9, 0774007233 or send an email to bnndlovu1984@gmail.com.