The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE Zimbabwe Amalgamated Council of Churches (ZACC), a civil society group made up of church organisations has called for the removal of illegal sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe by the West. ZACC patron, Mr Jimayi Muduvuri, said it was important for the people to unite and pray for the removal of sanctions which have impacted negatively on the political, social, cultural, religious and economic sectors. He was addressing church leaders, war veterans and business people during a meeting in Bulawayo on Sunday. Mr Muduvuri, who is also the patron of the Consumer Power in Zimbabwe and chairman of Coalition Against Sanctions said it was only prayer that could remove the sanctions. “America has said it’s only a few individuals that have been affected by sanctions but it’s not true. They have affected everyone in Zimbabwe. “It’s not the duty of the Government only to advocate for the removal of sanctions but all of us. All organisations must unite in the fight against sanctions,” said Mr Muduvuri. He said the sanctions, which were imposed while the late former President Cde Robert Mugabe was in power, should be removed to give President Mnangagwa a chance. “President Mnangagwa must be given a chance. We want a new life, a new dispensation and a new chapter that will give us better lives. These sanctions have tormented us for many years. “Right now our people are being attacked in South Africa. They left this country to look for better life there because the economy is not performing well and now they’re being killed,” said Mr Muduvuri. He accused some people in the country of imposing sanctions against others through sabotaging the economy and charging exorbitant prices. Coalition Against Sanctions secretary general Dr Davison Gomo said it was important for people to unite and work towards restoring the dignity of the nation. “Actions come from the people and not the Government. Let’s work together and make our economy work. Sanctions should go and we must all fight against them. “Let’s stop joining opposition parties because they’re creating a difficult situation by sabotaging Government’s efforts to turn around the economy,” said Dr Gomo He said although those who imposed sanctions on Zimbabwe deny it, society has been shattered and families have been disintegrated while ordinary citizens continue to bear the brunt of the ruinous weapons of economic warfare on Zimbabwe. Zanu-PF national political commissar, Cde Victor Matemadanda, urged the Consumer Power in Zimbabwe to take control of the pricing system because the Consumer Council of Zimbabwe (CCZ) has failed. “We grew up hearing about the CCZ and it’s still there but I think it’s tired. Consumer Power in Zimbabwe must be registered as a consumer representative body that will use the law to control the prices. Right now we’re making retailers happy when we complain about the price of bread yet we still buy it. “People must unite and agree that for the next one month let’s not buy bread. This will drop the prices. Consumers are simply failing to represent themselves. Everyone of us is a consumer. But like I said consumers should be able to protect their rights. There is a law to protect us but we don’t know,” said Cde Matemadanda. He said people must stop demonstrating against the Government over prices because it’s the retailers who set the prices. “We’re being abused by unscrupulous traders and they know that Zimbabweans will never be able to represent themselves. We’re busy targeting the wrong people,” he said.—@pamelashumba1