The Chronicle More than 500 people have been sickened in an outbreak of vaping-related illness in the United States, health authorities said on Thursday, as Los Angeles became the latest city to take steps to ban flavoured e-cigarettes. The known tally from the mysterious lung disease has jumped from 380 to 530, though the number of deaths stood unchanged at seven, according to a weekly report from the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. More than half the cases involved patients under 25 years of age and three-quarters were men, Anne Schuchat, the centres’ principal deputy director, said. Sixteen percent of those taken ill were under age 18. E-cigarettes have been touted as a safer alternative to smoking. But critics say the risks are insufficiently understood, while flavoured vaping liquids appeal particularly to children and risk getting them addicted to nicotine. Vape enthusiasts react as New York becomes the second US state to ban flavored e-cigarettes, following several vaping-linked deaths that have raised fears about a product long promoted as less harmful than smoking. The US Food and Drug Administration’s laboratories are testing more than 150 samples of suspect product, but have yet to identify the substance responsible for the patients’ severe pulmonary disease, said Mitch Zeller, who directs the agency’s Centre for Tobacco Products. “There is no consistent pattern when it comes to . . . what products plural are being used, how they’re being used, where they might have been purchased, and what might have happened to the products along the way, from the time that they were put into the hands of the end user, to the moment of aerosolisation, and, inhalation,” Zeller said. Investigators have so far been careful not to point the finger at any one brand, product or source. In many cases, vaping refills containing THC, the principal psychoactive compound in cannabis, were linked to those taken ill. Refills are often purchased on the street or internet, since cannabis remains illegal in many parts of the United States. Counterfeit refills whose ingredients are unknown could also be at cause. The FDA, whose Office of Criminal Investigations is now involved in the inquiry, is running tests to determine with what substances the nicotine or THC was cut, as well as whether any additional diluents, additives, pesticides, poison or toxins were used. — Al Jazeera