The Chronicle Derick Tsimba, Correspondent Zimbabwe once again this September 2019 has an opportunity to express itself to call for the removal of unjust sanctions imposed on it by the West. This is coming at a time when Sadc and AU have joined hands in calling for the removal of sanctions and its member states are sure to raise the issue at United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). Sanctions continue to be detrimental to economic development as they are a weapon of war being used against the nation and its populace. At a time when Africa is struggling to stand on its feet and catch up with the rest of the world, the West is designing weapons of war in form of sanctions to counter Africa’s development. Zimbabwe is left out on its quest to be part of the unfolding fourth industrial revolution as sanctions continue to be a stumbling block. Sanctions have hampered the pace of the country’s development for close to two decades. It’s high time the United Nations intervenes and pressure countries which have imposed illegal sanctions on the country to remove them. With sanctions out of the way, the country will be able to determine its own destiny as it has abundant natural resources to exploit. The interference of the West on Zimbabwean interests through sanctions suggests that the block is against the progress of Zimbabwe which they want to see domineered and its resources exploited. The Zimbabwean administration will continue to express itself at these international fora (UNGA) to ensure its territorial integrity, peace and security. Zimbabwe has managed to build an unquestionable reputation with the UN through the participation of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) during the UN international peace and security missions. The country hence has to be heard by reporting to Member States the injustice which continues to be extolled upon it by the super powers at a time it needs support to stand as a self sufficient economy. It is quite evident that the West is ensuring it inflicts the demise of African States so as to continue their economic dominance. Africa is in the process of putting in place the African Continental Free Trade Area, an initiative which should advance the development of African Union to a greater economic interaction among African States. Achieving a functional free trade area will see progress on industrialisation, intra-Africa trade as well as regional and continental integration. United Nations (UN) Charter asserts that Sovereign States are equal and their rights are inalienable whether big and small, strong or weak. The imposition of illegal sanctions has been ruinous and these have contributed immensely to the country’s challenges the citizens continue to experience up to this day. Regardless of the setback of Zimbabwe through sanctions, the nation through its capable leadership of President Emmerson Mnangagwa is determined to make its economy vibrant and improve the quality of its people’s lives. The country is moving forward along the path of sustainable development towards a modern, industrialised and prosperous society, free from poverty and corruption. According to His Excellency, the success of Zimbabwe is inevitable as the nation is constantly improving its socio-economic and political systems, and institutions. Zimbabweans should put the interests of the nation first. Zimbabwe will continue to reconcile the national and global realities in line with the hopes and aspirations of its people as outlined in its constitution. This year’s 74th session of the United Nations General Assembly which opened on, September 17, 2019, shall be attended by 193 Member States of the Organisation. The Member States will discuss and find ways of working together on a wide array of international issues covered by the Charter of the United Nations, which include development, peace and security, international law, among other issues.