The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Reporter THE Government yesterday announced the sitting arrangements for dignitaries attending the funeral service of the country’s founding father, former President, Robert Mugabe, today at the National Sports Stadium (NSS) in Harare. In a statement, the Ministry of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services said: “The funeral service for the late former President Robert Mugabe will be held tomorrow (today) at the NSS. The sitting arrangements for the event are as follows and attendees are advised to stick to their designated areas,” read the statement posted on the ministry’s official Twitter handle. According to the statement, President Mnangagwa and the First Lady, Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa, the visiting Heads of State and Government, former Heads of State, heads of delegation, the Vice-Presidents and their spouses, AU and Sadc representatives will occupy the VVIP tent. Former First Lady, Mrs Grace Mugabe and the rest of the bereaved family members will occupy the VIP tent together with the Zanu-PF national chairperson, Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri, the Speaker of the House of Assembly Advocate Jacob Mudenda, the President of Senate Mabel Chinomona, Chief Justice Luke Malaba and Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Dr Misheck Sibanda and foreign ministers. Others include the President of Chiefs Council, Chief Fortune Charumbira, MDC-Alliance president Mr Nelson Chamisa, MDC leader Dr Thokozani Khupe, former Vice-President Joice Mujuru, National Constitutional Assembly leader, Professor Lovemore Madhuku and other opposition parties’ leaders including South Africa’s Economic Freedom Fighters commander, Julius Malema. “The uniformed forces tent will be occupied by Service Chiefs, Chiefs of Protocol, Liaison Officers, ADCs and foreign Security while all senior uniformed forces with be at Bay 15,” read the statement. Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Governor Dr John Mangudya, Ministers, their deputies, Zanu-PF Politburo and Central Committee members, MPs, diplomats, Public Service Commissioners, Deputy Chief Secretaries and Harare mayor Councillor Herbert Gomba will occupy Bay 16. On Bay 17, there will be judges of the High Court and Supreme Court, Permanent Secretaries, chief executive officers of parastatals, senior Government officials, traditional chiefs and war veterans. At least 11 Heads of State and eight former presidents from various African countries confirmed their attendance to Cde Mugabe’s State funeral service. By last night, some of the foreign dignitaries, among them, Equatorial Guinea President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, his Namibian counterpart President Hage Geingob and his predecessors Hifikepunye Pohamba and Sam Nujoma, Saharawi leader Brahim Ghali, former Botswana President Festus Mogae and current Vice-President Slumber Tsogwane, had jetted into the country ahead of today’s event. Cde Mugabe, who was 95, died in Singapore after suffering ill-health for some time and was declared a national hero. He will be buried at the National Heroes’ Acre in Harare. — @mashnets