The Chronicle Andile Tshuma Load shedding has had some detrimental effects on the health situation in the country. Think about health care centres that do not have alternative sources of power; it can be hectic. It is a relief that most council-run clinics in Bulawayo have solar power on standby, and Government hospitals have generators as well, although operating a generator is costly. It gives hope that Government is talking about investing in solar energy in public institutions such as hospitals, schools and government offices. Energy and Power Development Minister Advocate Fortune Chasi spoke strongly about Government’s commitments to ensure that the effect of load shedding of the health sector is minimised, as has been shown by how most hospitals get dedicated power lines and are exempted from power cuts. Power cuts however do not only affect institutions but have health consequences even at home. Think of people taking care of very sick relatives. You need hot running water almost all the time. The need for cooking, heating and more. Power cuts make life just a little more difficult. I’m not even sure if little is the right word. This week I had the opportunity to have a chat with some senior citizens while queuing at a bank in town. Actually, I had spotted an old aunt of mine who was in the queue and had stopped to greet, and you know our old folk will just not stop talking, it was supposed to be a brief hie and bye. The talk of the moment was the issue of load shedding. I’m glad that the blackout hours have been significantly reduced, although having to reconfigure your daily routine according to the availability of such a crucial service is cumbersome. What caught my attention in the bank queue conversations were the health implications of incessant power cuts on the elderly in our communities. Some of them were decrying power cuts as they were chronic patients with chronic medication which had to be kept under strict conditions as far as temperatures are concerned. People living with diabetes and are on insulin are some of the people with medications that require special storage such as refrigeration. The elderly were lamenting that the power cuts were making life extra difficult for them as it was shortening the lifespans of their already hard to find medical supplies. “I am a pensioner and I am diabetic. My medical aid cover was exhausted for the year in April and I have to buy medication with cash until January 2020. The problem now is that my insulin and other medication for my hypertension and diabetic conditions is too expensive in the country. So I scan or send a prescription with bus drivers to South Africa for my grandchildren to buy and send back the medication. “They prefer to buy me three to six months’ supply of medication so that I have peace of mind. With these power cuts, the medicine, especially the injections go bad fast as they must be stored below a certain temperature with constant temperature over time. So far since May when load shedding started, I have lost three bottles of insulin and oral solutions and they are worth about US $300, which is over RTGS $3 000 and I do not have that kind of money. It is very painful,” said Mr Magutshwa. Another pensioner, a former teacher at Nswazi Primary School Mrs Eveline Mlilo said her husband, a retired school head Mr Reuben Mlilo had ulcers and was also diabetic, like she was, and required regular small portions of hot meals throughout the day. She said she could not afford filling up her gas cooker as it had become expensive, but was also too frail to cook and reheat food multiple times daily for her husband with special dietary needs. “My husband has special dietary needs as he has ulcers. He needs very soft isitshwala or potatoes in very small quantities and in warm temperature. So, when there is no electricity for over 12 hours each day, we face a real dilemma. “Gas is now expensive and I can’t fill it up all the time. I don’t have a grandchild to send around; they’re all at boarding schools. The going is tough. Instead of three regular meals, my husband requires about six small portions so that he does not upset his stomach. I can’t cook in advance and store food in the fridge now as it will go bad since there’s hardly any electricity. “When there is power, I cook everything else besides isitshwala in batches and then heat up small quantities in the microwave when we need it. Our bodies are frail, where would we even get the firewood,” narrated Mrs Mlilo. It dawned on me that there is more to these power cuts than just the inconvenience of sitting in the dark or idling around when you fail to do your work, say if you need to work on a computer. The effects of load shedding cut really deep. The power cuts have not only affected senior citizens but the generality of Zimbabweans. Imagine a working mum having to wake up at 11PM when power is restored. She has to make enough bottles of formula for the baby and make sure that there’s something ready for breakfast as power will be gone the following morning. Ensuring that school lunch is available, and packed, including her own packed lunch for work, now that buying food in town is so expensive. After turning night into a graveyard kitchen shift, she has a few hours of sleep but must wake up energised and ready to go to work. Bless these mums.