The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A BEITBRIDGE-based cop has been arrested for allegedly sexually abusing a five-year-old boy. Elvis Mavhurume pleaded not guilty to indecent assault when he appeared before Gwanda magistrate Miss Lerato Nyathi. He was remanded in custody to October 3 for trial. Prosecuting, Miss Glenda Nare said Mavhurume reportedly removed the boy’s clothes and licked his private parts. She said Mavhurume committed the offence when the complainant was playing at his house in Phakama Suburb in Gwanda. “On 15 June at around 6PM the complainant was playing at Mavhurume’s house in Phakama Suburb in Gwanda when he called him to play in his bedroom. “Mavhurume removed the complainant’s clothes and started licking his private parts and also bit him in the process. Mavhurume then dressed the complainant but forgot to close the zip and ordered him to go back to his mother. The complainant’s mother questioned her son on why his zip was open and he revealed what Mavhurume had done to him. The matter was reported to the police resulting in Mavhurume’s arrest,’’ she said. In another incident a 25-year-old West Nicholson man will spend the next nine months in prison for having sexual intercourse with his 14-year-old girlfriend. Mlungisi Shili of Artherstone area in West Nicholson was convicted on his own plea of guilty to having sexual intercourse with a young person by Gwanda Provincial Magistrate, Mr Lungile Ncube. He was sentenced to 12 months in prison and three months were suspended on condition that he does not commit a similar offence within the next five years. Prosecuting, Miss Ethel Mahachi said Shili had sexual intercourse with the complainant who cannot be named for ethical reasons during the period extending from February to June 17. She said the matter came to light when the complainant moved into Shili’s house. “Sometime in January Shili proposed love to the complainant who turned down his love proposal. Shili persisted up until the complainant accepted his love proposal in the month of February. Shili and the complainant started having sex in the same month up to June 17 at his home or at the complainant’s home when her parents were not around. “Their relationship came to light when the complainant who is currently not attending school went to Beitbridge to look for a job as a domestic worker. She failed to get a job and upon returning to her home area she went to stay with Shili for several days,” she said. Miss Mahachi said the matter came light when neighbours noticed the complainant and advised her to move out of Shili’s home. She said the complainant then went to her aunt’s home and told her about her relationship with Shili. Miss Mahachi said the complainant also revealed to her aunt that she had had sexual intercourse with Shili on several occasions. She said the matter was reported to the police resulting in Shili’s arrest. In his response Shili said he did not know that the complainant was below 16 years of age and she had consented to the sexual activities. — @DubeMatutu