The Chronicle Sharon Buwerimwe, Court Reporter A 39-YEAR-OLD man from Bulawayo who could not stomach seeing his ex-wife having quality time with another man, allegedly ambushed the couple and stabbed them several times with a knife. Mxolisi Khanye from Iminyela suburb allegedly went on to burn his ex-wife Ms Sehliselo Ndlovu (39)’s property valued at $405 after she had been rushed to hospital with her lover, Mr Prince Dube (37), last Saturday. An enraged Khanye allegedly stabbed Mr Dube three times on the neck and he is reportedly struggling to speak or eat at Mpilo Central Hospital where he has been admitted. Ms Ndlovu is being treated for stab wounds on her thighs at the same hospital. Khanye yesterday pleaded not guilty to assault and malicious damage to property before West Commonage magistrate, Ms Gladmore Mushove. He was remanded in custody to September 19 for continuation of trial. The court heard that Khanye became angry at the sight of his former wife enjoying the company of another man as he wanted to rekindle their relationship. Prosecuting, Mr Kenneth Shava said the incident occurred on September 7 this year at around 9PM. “Mr Dube and Ms Ndlovu were on their way home from Maseko Bar when Khanye attacked them with a kitchen knife. Khanye further burnt Ms Ndlovu’s clothes worth $405 and nothing was recovered,” he said. A limping Ms Ndlovu, whose thighs were heavily bandaged, said Khanye was bitter after they separated and threatened to fix her. “Khanye saw me walking with Prince and started following us saying he wanted to deal with me. He produced a knife and stabbed Prince on his neck. As I was trying to disarm him, he stabbed me on my thigh several times and I sustained deep cuts,” she said. “My ex-husband also stole my clothes and burnt them as he was jealous after I had dumped him. He went to unjustifiable extremes, what he did was not right.” The court heard passersby rushed the couple to Mpilo Central Hospital as blood was gushing out from their wounds. The matter was reported to the police leading to Khanye’s arrest.—@sharonbuwe