The Chronicle Harare Bureau THE remains of former President, Robert Mugabe, will now be buried in Zvimba on Saturday at the insistence of his family although the Government had already started working on the mausoleum that had been demanded by the family. Mr Leo Mugabe, the family spokesperson, confirmed the new development last night. “Yes, it is true. The former President will be buried in Zvimba on Saturday. I will let you know once I have the programme,” said Mr Mugabe. When asked about what would happen to the mausoleum, Mr Mugabe said he didn’t know. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Mr Nick Mangwana said Government is committed to respect the wishes of the deceased family. “The family of the late former President Robert Gabriel Mugabe has expressed its desire to proceed with his burial in Zvimba. In line with Government policy to respect the wishes of families of deceased heroes, Government is cooperating with the Mugabe family in their new position,” he said. Mr Mangwana added that Government will render all the necessary support to be given to the late former President a fitting burial as led by the family. Zanu-PF Mashonaland West Provincial Chairman, Cde Ziyambi Ziyambi said Government had been consistent from the beginning that it would respect the wishes of the family. “The body of the late Mugabe left Harare for Zvimba, awaiting burial set for Saturday. The family indicated that they are happy with burial at Heroes Acre. We took them to identify the place and we agreed to have the mausoleum constructed. The two children Chatunga and Robert Jr were part of those who went to the site. Today they indicated that they want to go Zvimba and Government agreed,” said Cde Ziyambi. He added that the party will be guided by the family programme. “We await communication from family on programme,” said Cde Ziyambi. However, chiefs from Zvimba yesterday threatened to boycott the burial, insisting the former President will be buried as an ordinary person if buried in Zvimba. 