The Chronicle Chronicle Reporter ZANU-PF yesterday said South Africa opposition leader Mr Julius Malema is a hypocrite seeking to use former President Robert Mugabe’s funeral for political mileage. Mr Malema who leads the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) was in the country on Monday to pay condolences to Mugabe’s family following his death early this month. The EFF leader went on a tirade accusing Sadc and African Union of not serving their members’ interests. Zanu-PF national spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said Mr Malema’s desperation had pushed him to use Cde Mugabe’s death for political relevance. “While the late Cde RG Mugabe has always been the national, regional and continental and globally esteemed revolution icon, who relentlessly fought the machinations of the oppressor, it is sad to have a puppet of the same colonisers Cde RG Mugabe fought, in the form of Malema demeaning all that he solidly stood for. It would be interesting to all and sundry if they would replay Malema’s past where he vilified the same late Cde Robert Gabriel Mugabe he now wants to befriend in death,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said the late former President needs no charlatans and controversial figures to uphold his legacy as his life speaks volumes for his Pan Africanist beliefs even at death. Cde Khaya Moyo said it was sad that Mr Malema wanted to use a funeral to gain political relevance. “In our African culture it is taboo for anyone despite their station in life to use the occasion of a funeral to demean fellow African brothers and sisters. In that regard, the party finds it reprehensible for Julius Malema to use such a solemn, sombre occasion to spew political propaganda and to score cheap political mileage,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. “Malema needs to be reminded that his illusion to equate youthful exuberance and verbosity for wisdom and grounded intellectuality exposes him for the political novice which he is. That Malema is now a decorated stooge at the mercy of our yesteryear colonisers is now a public secret as exhibited by his constant verbiage against African leaders and their respective countries. It is sad that he used Zimbabwean soil, the bastion of revolutionary mantra and the fortress of black conscientiousness to lampoon the regional body, Sadc leadership and its ethos.” He said Mr Malema should take his attention seeking antics elsewhere. Cde Khaya Moyo said instead of attention seeking, he and his party should seek to convince the South African electorate that has continuously rejected them.