The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter FORMER liberation movements are under threat from renewed neo-imperialist hegemony whose mission is to destabilise African governments and effect illegal regime changes. This was revealed at the 10th meeting of Secretaries General and wings of former liberation movements (FLMs) of Southern Africa held this week in Victoria Falls. Different speakers said Africa was under siege from Western powers who have deployed a cocktail of strategies to destabilise former liberation movements through sponsoring opposition parties, non-governmental organisations, civic society and some pseudo scholarship foundations which are responsible for the unrest being witnessed in many countries. Zanu-PF Secretary for Administration, Dr Obert Mpofu, who was guest speaker said FMLs should be wary of neo imperialists and revel in the spirit of brotherhood exhibited during the struggle for independence in the region. “If yesterday we were close allies as we fought to bring freedom where our people perished and were buried in unmarked graves in our different countries as we yearned for our independence, what can therefore separate us after this tortuous and yet self-fulfilling journey? We managed to bring political independence and the next journey is that of economically empowering our people. This vigour with which we brought this cherished freedom is the same which we should apply in the economic battle,” he said. Zanu-PF director of administration Cde Dickson Dzora said there is a renewed western world interest in Africa. He said the region should be wary of some civil society organisations that come in sheep’s skin yet they are imperialists agents. Cde Dzora said the meeting comes at a time when regime change efforts have assumed an asymmetrical dimension through the use of cyber space, non-governmental organisations and sanctions. “We need to create an awareness against programmes spearheaded by imperialist nurtured civil society organisations such as Mandela Washington, Yali, Peace Cops and Obama Fellowship which are regime change conduits which need to be exposed. Our commitment to promoting our revolutionary ties continues to be informed by a strong Pan-Africanist philosophical foundation and fresh memories of our liberation history. “Despite these challenges, the Second Republic under President Emmerson Mnangagwa remains committed to playing its part in maintaining regional peace, stability and development. “Zimbabwe is grateful to the resolution by Sadc on declaring October 25 as the day the region unites and call out for removal of sanctions on Zimbabwe,” said Cde Dzora as he urged the spirit of brotherhood to prevail across the whole continent. He said ideology remains a key strategy towards insulating the region from western cultural domination. In the spirit of brotherhood, FLMs resolved at their previous meeting in Tanzania that each country should establish a school of ideology so as to inculcate Pan Africanism among its people. Zimbabwe already has the Herbert Chitepo School of Ideology while a regional Julius Nyerere School of Ideology is being built in Tanzania. The Principal of Herbert Chitepo School of Ideology Cde Munyaradzi Machacha said the hidden hand of western powers is manifest in South Africa through the recent new wave of xenophobic attacks, in Mozambique and Zimbabwe where it sponsors the MDC Alliance to pose threat to Zanu-PF as well as vandalise infrastructure. “The level of interference escalated in Zimbabwe because of pronouncement of pro-people policies that reached crescendo during the land reform and now it is in South Africa,” said Cde Mchacha. He said FLMs’ suspicion is based on known historical facts where the west seeks to divide and rule Africa. Cde Machacha implored FLMs to unite against the enemy. Diplomatic expert, Cde Chris Mutsvangwa, challenged FLMs to institutionalise the revolution in a coordinated approach as the imperialists do thorough research before unleashing terror. A National Executive Council member of the African National Congress veterans’ league, Cde Nora Zenani Fakude, warned that the xenophobic attacks in South Africa could spread to other countries if the region doesn’t act to help the affected country. The theme for the meeting is: “Uniting Former Liberation Movements against Neo-colonialism through Total Economic Cooperation, Development and Independence.”- @ncubeleon