The Chronicle Sallomy Matare, Harare Bureau The United Nations on Thursday said agriculture is key in the revival of Zimbabwe’s economy as the country has massive potential to feed itself and once again retain its bread basket status. The remarks tally with the Second Republic’s thrust that has seen President Mnangagwa prioritising the agricultural sector, with the line ministry being the only one served with two deputy ministers. The Command Agriculture scheme is also in the heart of President Mnangagwa, with this year alone Government earmarking $2,8 billion for the programme and will extend the facility by another year and result in the planting of 210 000 hectares of maize and 30 000 hectares of soya beans during the 2019/20 summer cropping season. Speaking at a workshop in Harare, outgoing UN resident cordinator Ambassador Bishow Parajuli, widely seen as an astute diplomat who ended his five-year tour of duty in Zimbabwe yesterday and is heading to India, said agriculture will be a strong pillar for the revival of the economy. “Zimbabwe can produce not only to feed itself but Africa and beyond. The country has so much land, right weather and water. With right policies the country can overcome all these challenges,” he said. Ambassador Parajuli said Zimbabwe has a great future lying ahead and needs joint efforts from all citizens in the transformation process being spear-headed by President Mnangagwa. “I hope economic challenges will be a thing of the past, with efforts by Government to transform the country and bringing long term sustainable solutions. International engagement, opening the country for business and concrete development plans are excellent visions from his Excellency President Mnangagwa. “Efforts of Central Government and leadership of President Mnangagwa has been excellent as shown by the appeal document we launched on 6 August,” said Ambassador Parajuli. On the hardships facing the country, Ambassador Parajuli said the situation was a combination of Cyclone Idai, drought and efforts to stabilise the economy. “We should adapt to climate change so that households are able to respond without relief efforts. UN partners are, however, committed to working with Zimbabwe to overcome some of the challenges facing the country” said.