The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter ZANU-PF Politburo member Retired Colonel Tshinga Dube has said the late former President and national hero, Cde Robert Mugabe, belongs to a rare breed of nationalists and his contributions towards the development of the country should not be downplayed. Cde Mugabe died last Friday in Singapore where he was receiving medical care. In an interview yesterday, Rtd Col Dube said Cde Mugabe worked illustriously for the development of the country. “We worked with him very well. He belongs to the old crop of leaders and pan-Africanists. Most of his colleagues include the late nationalists Herbert Chitepo, George Silundika, Jason Moyo, Joshua Nkomo, Simon Muzenda, Joseph Msika and Edson Zvogbo among others who contributed immensely to the liberation of the country. He was the only surviving luminary from the old crop,” said Rtd Col Dube. He said Cde Mugabe led the nation for 37 years contributing greatly, especially in the education sector. Rtd Col Dube said Cde Mugabe imparted a great deal of knowledge on sovereignty and pan-Africanism ideals as he stood firm on empowering the public.  He said while it may be easy for people to criticise the former President, it is important not to forget his contributions to Zimbabwe. “It’s true that when people look at a leader they always look at the dark side and forget the good deeds that he would have done. He may not have been perfect, no one is. But he worked very hard for the country. And I always say it’s not fair to judge someone harshly when they are dead and can no longer answer for themselves,” said Rtd Col Dube. He said Cde Mugabe cannot be blamed for some of his decisions during his last days in power as he no longer possessed the mental stamina he had while he was younger. Rtd Col Dube said at his advanced age, Cde Mugabe was bound to make several mistakes and poor judgments on issues as old age had taken a toll on him. Meanwhile, Zanu-PF national spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya-Moyo has urged party supporters to throng Rufaro Stadium to pay their last respects to the liberation icon today. “People across the country have started paying their final respects to our national hero and liberation icon former President R G Mugabe at Rufaro Stadium in Harare. “Today (yesterday) has been set aside for the following provinces: Harare, Mashonaland East, Mashonaland Central, Mashonaland West and Manicaland to pay their last respects. Tomorrow is set aside for Bulawayo, Matabeleland North, Matabeleland South, Midlands and Masvingo provinces. The Zanu-PF revolutionary party calls upon its entire membership to come in their thousands to pay their final respects as advised,” said Cde Khaya-Moyo. – @nqotshili