The Chronicle Joseph Madzimure and Yeukai Tazira ZESA will roll out the second phase of prepaid meter systems targeting 100 000 customers who are using the old billing system as a measure of recovering debts from defaulters, the power utility’s acting chief executive Engineer Patrick Chivaura has said. The power utility is owed $1,2 billion by consumers, some of whom have not made any payments in almost a decade. So far, Eng Chivaura said, more than $190 million has been recovered from defaulters through the prepaid meter system. “We are collecting $4 million from debtors every month through the prepaid meter systems, which is proving to be efficient,” he said. This comes as Zesa, which is struggling to meet demand due to low water levels at Lake Kariba and technical challenges at Hwange Thermal Power Station, has indicated that it will soon disconnect all consumers who fail to pay or make a payment plan. In an interview, Eng Chivaura said they have put in place measures to recover the debts, such as disconnections, prepaid meter systems, stop orders payment plan, blacklisting. The prepaid meter platform is aimed at collecting 50 percent of the debt owed by defaulters. “The prepaid meter platform is aimed at collecting 50 percent of what you purchase, which goes to clear the debt, said Eng Chivaura. We still have 100 000 prepaid meters that are yet to be installed and once they are on prepaid metres, the debt will be easy to collect.” Eng Chivaura said efforts were being made to ensure everyone uses prepaid meters. “We are in the process of buying the meters, orders have been placed and our suppliers are still waiting for foreign currency to bring meters so that everyone will be on prepaid,” he said. In a related development, Eng Chivaura said Zesa was working on smart meters for medium and large power users. On disconnections, he said 27 000 customers have been blacklisted. “Their names are at the credit bureaus,” said Eng Chivaura. “We usually give business customers six months’ payment plans and if they default we disconnect. We are also engaging debt collectors,” he said.