The Chronicle Mkhululi Ncube, Chronicle Reporter THE Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) yesterday said preparations for the Mangwe by-election are at an advanced stage with deployment of election officers set to start tomorrow ahead of voting on Saturday. Eight candidates are eyeing the Mangwe Parliamentary seat which fell vacant following the death of Zanu-PF legislator Cde Obedingwa Mguni in June. The candidates are Cde Hlalani Mguni (Zanu-PF), widow to the late MP Cde Mguni, Kositsile George Raphael (MDC-T), Zinkabi Tommy Ncube (Independent), Vincent Sihlabo (MDC- Alliance), Mathews Sibanda (Zapu), Lizwe Dlomo (NCA), Chatada Edmond Nleya (MRP) and Varaidzo Phumuzile Phiri (Lead Party). Zec Matabeleland South provincial elections officer, Mr Robson Nyoni, told The Chronicle that election officers would be deployed to the constituency starting tomorrow. “We are putting final touches on training and from Wednesday we will start deployment of our teams throughout the constituency. We want to do the deployments early to make sure that preparations are not congested, so in terms of logistics we are ready,” said Mr Nyoni. He said the commission made arrangements with fuel suppliers to avert any fuel challenges. “You will agree with me that there is a fuel problem in the country but we have made plans so that we are able to deploy. We want to believe that the arrangement we have with suppliers is going to be honoured so we do not expect any problems that may affect the elections,” said Mr Nyoni . He said Zec will continue with its pilot project of displaying the voters roll at all polling stations. The pilot project was launched during the Lupane East by-election won by Zanu-PF last month. “The displaying of the voters roll will be done to make sure that before people get into a queue they are able to access the voters roll and check if their names are there. We used to have people coming to wrong stations and our officers would then have to direct them to the correct station. We are the second constituency after Lupane East that will continue with this pilot project,” Mr Nyoni said. He appealed to all eligible voters to come out in their numbers and exercise their right to vote peacefully. “They should make sure that they do everything according to the laws of the land and as Zec we will make sure that we provide a safe and conducive environment for them to exercise their right to vote,” Mr Nyoni said. — @themkhust_ncube