The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter THE ruling Zanu-PF party yesterday said the Second Republic under President Mnangagwa’s stewardship will continue pursuing its re-engagement drive even if the country is under incessant attacks from hostile Western nations. This comes as President Mnangagwa last week attended the 7th Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD). Zanu-PF national spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya-Moyo said despite the country being vilified, President Mnangagwa’s re-engagement drive remains on course. “Zanu-PF notes that while the country has come under incessant attacks from the usual hostile forces in recent weeks, more fully from the West, the TICAD summit confirms the desire by the greater international                                                                      community to see a successful and prosperous Zimbabwe. “The party congratulates His Excellency Cde ED Mnangagwa on behalf of the nation of Zimbabwe for the great achievement recorded thus far,” said Cde Khaya-Moyo. He said President Mnangagwa’s participation at TICAD was another stepping stone as the country forges ahead with solid economic ties with other progressive nations. “TICAD, whose main objective is to strengthen economic ties and build mutually beneficial partnerships between Japan and African states, brought over 40 countries to the table to explore the immense economic potential that exists within the great                   continent. “The summit had a special significance to the country as His Excellency President Mnangagwa scored a number of diplomatic victories which clearly demonstrated the gains of the re-engagement drive which the Government is pursuing since the ushering of the 2nd Republic,” Cde Khaya-Moyo said. “The fact that His Excellency, the President, was accorded the opportunity to chair a high level investor session at TICAD which was attended by a number of leading Japanese businessmen and entrepreneurs was in itself a manifestation of the confidence which Japan has not only in the President, but in his Government and by and large the Zimbabwean nation as a whole.” He said the ruling party is pleased with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s commitment towards partnering Zimbabwe in various investor projects. Cde Khaya-Moyo said Zimbabwe is set to benefit from the US$20 billion Japanese              scheme targeting Africa within a five-year period. “Further, the party celebrates that on the sidelines of TICAD, His Excellency had fruitful discussions with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and managed to receive solid commitments from the Prime Minister that Japan stands ready to assist Zimbabwe in its economic reforms agenda. “The party further cherishes that His Excellency, Prime Minister Abe underscored to President Mnangagwa that Zimbabwe stood to significantly benefit from the US$20 billion investments earmarked for Africa by the Japanese business community in the next five years. “It is significant to note that His Excellency also had fruitful deliberations with the Japanese Emperor, further solidifying the existing sound relations between Zimbabwe and Japan,” he said. “The outcome of the TICAD summit reflects the continued confidence which the international community is showing in the country’s economic reform initiative underlined by the fact that Zimbabwe is truly open for business.” Cde Khaya-Moyo said the party is optimistic that President Mnangagwa will strike new deals at the World Economic Forum starting tomorrow and ending on Friday in Cape Town, South Africa. — @nqotshili