The Chronicle Locadia Mavhudzi, Midlands Correspondent The Zimbabwe Human Rights Commission (ZHRC) has descended on the Midlands Province to mobilise communities to participate in a national programme that is targeted at improving access to critical documents. Speaking at a provincial stakeholders’ meeting, ZHRC national inquiry coordinator, Ms Gorretti Mudzongo, said the programme seeks to identify challenges faced by citizens in accessing national documents such as the birth certificates, national identity cards, passports and death certificates. “Under section 243(1) (j) of the constitution, the ZHRC is mandated to conduct research into issues relating to human rights, freedoms, and social justice. “To fulfil this critical function, we are conducting a national inquiry on access to documentation in Zimbabwe. “We will be going to all the provinces and later cascade to hotspots mainly resettlement and border areas where there is a huge concentration of people without national documents,” she said. Midlands Provincial Development Coordinator, Mr Abiot Maronge said the national documentation programme will go a long way in providing solid data for the programming of social and economic activities under the national devolution programme. “Access to documentation is a critical element in the devolution agenda. Planning for economic development programmes is made easier when we have correct data about the people in Gokwe North or Mberengwa. “People without national documents are left out in critical programmes such as access to education or food from government or donor supported programmes. One cannot access formal employment without proper documents,” he said. Chief Mposi of Mberengwa said the programme has come at an opportune time when the traditional leadership has been overwhelmed trying to assist many people who have an identity crisis due to lack of proper documents. “We are grateful that the programme is now coming to the people. We often get assisted towards national elections when the registrar general’s office conducts mass registration. “Child-headed families are usually the worst affected in terms of birth certificates,” he said.