The Chronicle Paidamoyo Chipunza, Harare Bureau Christians from different denominations yesterday celebrated the resurrection of Jesus Christ, three days after His crucifixion on the cross, signifying forgiveness of sins and restoration of peoples’ relationship with God. Some denominations held all night vigils on Saturday into Sunday, where baptism and Holy Communion was taken while others had the same activities yesterday morning – all of which signified renewal of the Covenant with God. Songs depicting hope, happiness and appreciation characterised most services yesterday. Senior pastor at Northside Community Church in Pomona, Pastor Gary Cross said Easter was the most celebrated day on the church calendar, compared to Christmas as it paved way for forgiveness of sins and a chance to eternal life. “It is the forgiveness of our sins that builds our relationship with God. He took all our sins away on the cross, as He said: ‘It is finished.’ “What that meant was that the debt has been paid in full,” said Pastor Cross. He said Jesus’ resurrection also proved that what He had said before His death was true. “He said He will be betrayed, crucified, die and resurrect on the third day and truly it came to pass. That is very important to us as Christians and today we are remembering the empty tomb,” said Pastor Cross. He said these occurrences provided a chance to anyone to have eternal life through restoration of their relationship with God. “This has been our message to our congregants throughout Easter and is also our message to all Zimbabweans,” he said. Pastor Sean Mullens of One Church in Avondale echoed Pastor Cross’ sentiments saying Jesus Christ showed what true love is. “This is how we know what love is: Jesus Christ laid down His life for us (1 John 3:16). “He is the resurrection and the life. Anyone who believes in Him will live, even after dying (John11:25). “Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into His glory? (Like 24:24) “God proves His love for us in this: While we were still sinners, Christ died for us (Romans 5:8),” said Pastor Mullens. Bishop Trevor Manhanga of the Pentecostal Assemblies of Zimbabwe (Harare Central Province) said Zimbabweans should take advantage of Easter celebrations to unite. Important events in Easter celebrations, which started on Friday include the Passover, Crucifixion and Jesus’ resurrection. The Passover is one of the most important religious festivals in the Jewish calendar. Jews celebrate the Feast of Passover to commemorate the liberation of the children of Israel who were led out of Egypt by Moses. It was continued in Christianity, beginning with the Palm Sunday which marks the entrance of Jesus Christ into Jerusalem, gathering of his disciples to celebrate the Passover meal, which then became known as the Last Supper. This is followed by Good Friday, which is remembered as the day Jesus was crucified. Easter Sunday is commemorated as the day when Jesus was resurrected from the dead and it points Christians to the widely held belief of the second coming of Jesus.