The Chronicle Ricky Zililo/Tobias Mandoreba, Sports Reporters HWANGE FC are not getting carried away by the bright start to the 2019 Castle Lager Premier League season but will seek to maintain a “hands on the deck” attitude when they host Ngezi Platinum Stars at the Colliery Stadium tomorrow. Hwange sent out some loud warning shots to the entire league last Sunday when they silenced the blue and white Dynamos masses at Rufaro Stadium in a remarkable 2-1 victory, maintaining a perfect start on their return to top flight football. This was a follow up to 2-0 win over troubled Yadah FC at home in the season opener. Speaking on the sidelines of an afternoon training session at the Colliery Stadium yesterday, head coach Nation Dube said he is not getting carried away as yet as the league campaign is a marathon. “We have started brightly and it gives us confidence going forward but we are not at all getting carried away by the start as it is early days. Training has been going on well and morale in the camp is high and every player is raring to go and give their best effort for the team,” said Dube. Hwange goalkeeper, Taimom Mvula, produced arguably one of the best goalkeeping performances ever seen at Rufaro Stadium in years and Dube will be hopeful the youngster will bring his A game against Ngezi Platinum Stars. Ex-Bulawayo Chiefs and Bulawayo City midfielder Eddie Nkhulungo, who chose the big stage to make his return to the Premiership, banged in a brace at Rufaro Stadium and will hope to endear himself with the passionate Hwange fans with another memorable performance tomorrow. The defence has also been the mainstay of Hwange’s early success with veterans Felix Chindungwe and Gerald Ndlovu proving their worth in the heart of defence which also has eccentric and overlapping Nomore Chinyerere and Kupakwashe Matake. Chipangano’s good start has also left their fans elated. The supporters’ chairperson, Lisutu Ndlovu, is on cloud nine and highlighted that the supporters are now waiting for more glorious days to come. “From the previous matches in which we faced Yadah FC and Dynamos, our fans are still in a frenzy after the results left us with smiles on our faces. As for tomorrow’s game, we are expecting a third win of this season and I am also highly confident that three points are already in the bag as the play is purposeful and encouraging. Hwange is on fire and the fire will keep glowing as the 12th player will cheer the boys from the first to last whistle,” said Ndlovu. Meanwhile, Ngezi Platinum Stars coach Erol Akbay said his aim is to maintain their superiority against the coalminers. “There’s nothing like easy games here in Zimbabwe. All we have to do is to make sure that we don’t make mistakes and play good football and create chances and if we create chances we score. “Two things that are important are to play good football and score. At the end of the day we have to win,” said Akbay. Ngezi have played Hwange two times at the Colliery, losing once in 2016 when they went down 2-0. In 2017, the season Hwange were relegated from the Premiership, the platinum miners won the tie 3-0. The other two matches played at Baobab, Ngezi won 3-0 and 4-1. During his two-year stint at Highlanders, Akbay faced Hwange four times, winning three and losing the last encounter at the Colliery 3-0. Ngezi’s trip to Hwange has been boosted by the return from suspension of skipper Liberty Chakoroma and defender Keith Murera who missed the last game through injury. Match Day Three fixtures Today: Mushowani Stars v FC Platinum (National Sports Stadium, 1PM), Black Rhinos v Bulawayo Chiefs (National Sports Stadium), TelOne v ZPC Kariba (Mandava), Harare City v Highlanders (Rufaro), Chicken Inn v Dynamos (Barbourfields) Tomorrow: Caps United v Chapungu (National Sports Stadium), Hwange v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Colliery), Herentals v Yadah (Rufaro), Triangle United v Manica Diamonds (Gibbo) — @ZililoR