The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter STAND-UP comedian and founder of Umahlekisa Comedy Club Ntando Van Moyo says he does not believe in the concept of God which is preached by most churches. Speaking to Chronicle Showbiz, Van Moyo said he does not believe in the existence of God as it is a ploy used by politicians and religions to manipulate and control people. “I don’t believe in the concept of God as preached by religion, some religions believe God is a cow and others believe in different concepts. I believe God is within you not an abstract figure elsewhere,” said Van Moyo. “This is a bigger conversation which needs one to deal with convictions at a deeper level. What does one mean by God? Is it a spirit? Not even the Bible talks of God being omnipresent which means you are the God in you and whatever you do is judged by the God in you. This is why you feel guilty when you do something wrong. So basically we are all gods.” The stand-up comedian said he was born and raised in a Christian family which believed firmly in the existence of God but as he grew up he decided to convert. “I grew up in an SDA family. We attended church every Saturday, but my beliefs are my own convictions, there were a lot of things that I was failing to understand about Christianity and always felt like it’s a brain wash.” The comedian said he believed in traditional religion (amadlozi) saying Christianity was for whites. “Ancestors do exist and they pass messages to a God within you. I believe when you pray or ukuthethela you’re giving homage to yourself as well as giving yourself guidance and comfort,” said Van Moyo. “God as preached by religions and politics is meant to manipulate and control society but the real God within is there to help you reach self actualisation.” Asked if the comedian teaches his children the same beliefs, Van Moyo said: “My children have the freedom to make their choices when it comes to religion. I feel religion is a matter of personal understanding which shouldn’t be forced upon anyone.” The question of the existence of God has been debated and has divided many for centuries. There are people who are proud atheists (those who do not believe in the existence of God) like the American actor, Brad Pitt.