The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter More than 90 percent of the available exhibition space at this year’s Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) has been taken up with 12 foreign nations having so far confirmed participation at the prime trade showcase. Addressing journalists during a Press conference at the Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre in Bulawayo yesterday, Industry and Commerce Minister Mangaliso Nqobizitha Ndlovu said preparations for the upcoming event to be held from April 23 to 27 under the theme, “Propagating Industrial Growth through Trade and Investment,” have gathered momentum. Preparations for the 60th edition of the ZITF are gaining momentum and the ZITF Company is optimistic it will be a successful show,” he said. “To date, 47 724 square metres have been taken up by a total of 435 exhibitors. This occupancy figure represents 90,03 percent uptake on space made available for sale. “These statistics compare favourably to the booking situation at the same time last year (45 632 square metres taken by 414 exhibitors).” Minister Ndlovu said of the total number of confirmed exhibitors, 12 percent were first time exhibitors displaying a wide range of products and services including printing and packaging, tourism, education services and advocacy, agriculture equipment, media and advertising, Information Communication Technology and food manufacturing. “On the international exhibitor front, 16 direct international exhibitors have booked space to date, which is marginally lower than the 17 that had booked at the same time last year,” he said. Confirmed international exhibitors were from 12 nations namely Botswana, Ethiopia, Japan, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, United States of America and Zambia. “Interestingly, the United States of America, through the US embassy will be making a return to the ZITF after a three-year hiatus to show their commitment to re-engagement with Zimbabwe. Among the expected displays from the other international exhibitors are agriculture equipment, food and beverages, cosmetics, education services, ICT, automation equipment, energy products, transportation, building and constructions as well as clothing and textile,” said Minister Ndlovu. He said ZITF 2019 would be an ideal platform for individuals, companies and communities with bankable investment projects to showcase them to potential investors and partners. Minister Ndlovu said Government had also taken a deliberate stance to assist small-to-medium enterprises to access and fully utilise the trade platform by subsidising their participation at the trade fair. “This is in line with the Transitional Stabilisation Programme that advocates for inclusion and support of SMEs development. Some of the Government arms that are spearheading this include the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation; the Ministry of Women Affairs, Community, Small to Medium Enterprise Development, ZimTrade, and Homelink who will have group exhibits by SMEs seeking investment and partnership opportunities,” said Minister Ndlovu. — @okazunga.