The Chronicle Eddie Chikamhi/Ricky Zililo, Sport Reporters DYNAMOS coach, Lloyd Chigowe, is expecting his charges to respond and tame a poor away run against Chicken Inn when the two teams clash in a Castle Lager Premiership football match at Barbourfields this afternoon. The Glamour Boys have beaten the Gamecocks only once in eight meetings in Bulawayo since the side got promoted in 2011. Dynamos are coming from a disappointing home outing where they slumped to a 1-2 defeat to Hwange at Rufaro in their last game. “We commended the boys for a very good performance in the last match but we reminded them that defeat is not good enough even if you perform well,’’ said Chigowe. “So, they have got to put in an extra shift and make sure we give Chicken Inn the fight of their lives. “No doubt, Chicken Inn are one of the strongest contenders for the title this year. “They have collected maximum points in their first two games and that is a statement of intent on its own. “But we are ready to compete, the boys are showing hunger and we must expect a fight in Bulawayo. There is going to be a battle royale at Barbourfields.’’ DeMbare left for Bulawayo yesterday without one of their key forwards, Claude Junior Ngahan. The Cameroonian thrilled fans at Rufaro in the game against Hwange but he picked up an ankle injury during practice this week. Rightback, Emmanuel Jalai, was also in doubt but striker Ngandu Mangala has recovered from a knee injury. “I have always said that we are a collective group and we are getting stronger together. In the long run, modern football is about squads. It’s not about individuals. “Yes, individuals do make a difference, like Lionel Messi or Neymar, but in the end it is about the group and the group is ready to go,” said Chigowe. Chicken Inn have started the season on fire, winning their opening two games against ZPC Kariba and Yadah. The club’s new signing Clive Augusto has been in fine form after scoring three goals in those two matches. He got a brace against ZPC Kariba and scored when they beat Yadah in Harare, with the other goal coming from fellow new signing Marlvin Gaki. However, their coach Joey Antipas was cautious ahead of their battle against DeMbare. The Gamecocks have won four of the eight games against Dynamos since 2011. They drew three and lost once in 2015, when they ironically went on to win the title. “We started off well and I think our win over Yadah last week was deserved. But we are still trying to get the magic formula called consistency. “We need to keep working hard and try to be as focused as we can. We need to collect as many points as we can because competition will be tight as we go on. “Already, we have seen a lot of good sides showing what they can do and I would think it will be a fatal mistake to think that you can win a game before you have played it. “So, we are taking it one game at a time and we hope for a positive result against Dynamos,” said Antipas. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters’ Association (ZNSSA) Bulawayo Chapter will this morning join Dynamos fans in a road show to market the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match between Chicken Inn and DeMbare. The two teams clash at Barbourfields Stadium this afternoon, with Chicken Inn in pole position, two matches into the season while Dynamos are on number seven on the table. ZNSSA Bulawayo wing secretary-general Trust Jim said the campaign, similar to the one that was held last weekend when they joined Highlanders and Caps United fans in a road show ahead of the blockbuster which ended 0-0, is part of uniting football supporters from all the teams. “Dynamos Bulawayo Supporters’ Chapter is having their road show in the city on Saturday and as the Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters’ Association (ZNSSA) Bulawayo wing, we feel this is a good time to reach out to football loving people and get them to unite for the good of the game. Last weekend we joined Highlanders and Caps United for their ‘We’re One’ marches which were powered by their sponsor NetOne. Now the good thing about tomorrow’s (today) road show is that it is being organised by the fans of Dynamos and we call on the people of Bulawayo to support it,” said Jim.