The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter HARARE community choir Note2etoN, who have won a number of awards, will be in Bulawayo this week as they prepare for the 2020 World Choir Games. The choir’s technical director, Imbuwa Mubu, said they will be in Bulawayo on Friday and will spend the weekend in the city. They will conduct a musical workshop at Girls College on Friday where they are calling on all high school choirs in Bulawayo to come through. “We want to meet the school choirs and share our choral knowledge with them. The following day, we’ll do a free charity concert at Zimbabwe Academy of Music before we wrap up our tour on Sunday with a performance at Hillside Methodist Church,” Mubu said. “The Saturday show is very important to us as it’s a charity show where we’ll be giving back to the community through our music.” Note2etoN choir, which performed very well in last year’s World Choir Games in Pretoria where they won two silver medals, will be competing at the 2020 choir games in Belgium. Mubu said the Bulawayo tour was a way of rehearsing for the 2020 competition. “This tour is part of our preparations for the World Choir Games in 2020. It’s also a platform for the choir to contribute to the arts sector in Bulawayo by collaborating with young aspiring musicians from the city of Bulawayo.” He added: “We always make sure that we depict and represent the Zimbabwean culture everywhere we go. At the 2018 World Choir Games, we represented the Shona culture and at next year’s games we want to depict the Ndebele culture so it was very important to us to do this Bulawayo tour as we want to learn more about the culture.” Note2etoN was born out of friends’ shared love for music and the desire to make life in Harare more interesting and fun. Their passion grew from competing in the National Institute of Allied Arts competitions where they won numerous awards, to attaining two silver medals at the 2018 World Choir Games. Their repertoire contains local Zimbabwean music as well as an array of international compositions.