The Chronicle Chronicle Reporter Zimnat Group’s presence at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) this year will give customers an opportunity to find out more about the products the Group offers, sign up for policies and make general enquiries. Customers can also take advantage of Zimnat’s presence at the annual exhibition to make alterations to insurance policies they may already hold with the group in the same way as they would do at any of the Zimnat branches countrywide. They will also be able to take out or renew their motor vehicle insurance and license their vehicles. Located in Hall Number Four, the stand will have the same ambiance that characterises all its offices countrywide. Zimnat financial advisors will be present at the stand throughout the exhibition to assist customers and give advice on the various options available for them to help them plan their lives. In addition to the services that will be available, there are a number of activities lined up for visitors to the stand. There will be sign-up-and-win, refer-and-win and pop-a-balloon-and-win prizes, as well as a quiz with prizes at 4pm each day. Customers who take part in any of the competitions or activities stand a chance of walking away with branded prizes or gifts. “We have a lot of exciting activities lined up at the Zimnat stand this year,” said Zimnat group marketing executive Angela Mpala. “Customers who sign up at the stand for an insurance policy will walk away with a branded gift, so will customers who refer their friends and relatives to the Zimnat stand to sign up for a policy. “Lucky customers who sign up for a policy will also be given an opportunity to pop a balloon and stand a chance to win a prize, details of which are within the balloon,” she said. “More importantly, however, visitors to our stand will have an opportunity to find out more about Zimnat, the products we offer and how they can best take advantage of them. “There will be financial advisors at the stand at all times, ready to give advice as to which products best suit each individual,” she said. “There will also be a daily quiz about the products and services we offer, with prizes for the quiz winners,” she added. She pointed out that, while most people know that Zimnat offers insurance policies, many may be unaware that it also offers financial and asset management services. The Zimnat Group is comprised of Zimnat Life Assurance, Zimnat General Insurance, Zimnat Financial Services, Zimnat Asset Management and the Funeral Services Group, underwritten by Zimnat Life Assurance. The group is associated with Sanlam South Africa, the biggest non-banking financial services group on the continent.