The Chronicle Tobias Mandoreba in Hwange Hwange 1- 0 Manica Diamonds AN own goal by veteran defender Partson Jaure deep into injury time broke the resistance of a resolute Manica Diamonds in an evenly contested Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at the Colliery Stadium yesterday. It looked like the two mining teams were poised to share the spoils, but tbe football gods smiled on Chipangano as substitute Tafara Chese went on the run on the right flank, sent in a teasing cross, which was met by Ernest Gwitima on the volley and deflected off Jaure into his own net. Jaure had played his heart out the whole afternoon to thwart Hwange’s raids in a solid defensive partnership with Hwange-born defender Carlton Munzabwa. Hwange head coach Nation Dube threw in Ted Ncube in the 61st minute for Arlton Ndlovu and Tafara Chese for Admire Banda in the 66th minute. These changes injected firepower in Hwange’s attacks. The visitors only came to life in the second half with some lovely build-ups revolving around young midfielder Arlton Ndlovu and giant striker Dingani Maphosa. Manica Diamonds goalkeeper Jorum Muchambo produced the save of the afternoon in the 69th minute by denying Gwitima from a one-on-one situation. Hwange goalie Taimon Mvula then kept the hosts in the contest towards the end with two point blank saves to deny Pritchard Mpelele and Stephen Sibanda before the world crumbled on Manica Diamonds with Jaure’s own goal. Coach Dube was elated with the result. “I am happy with result but it’s work in progress as we are not yet clinical in front of goal. We are in the league to compete,” Dube said. Manica Diamonds coach Luke Masomere conceded defeat but vowed to bounce back saying the performance by his team was decent. Teams Hwange: Taimon Mvula; Kupakwashe Matake; Nomore Chinyerere; Gerald Ndlovu; Felex Chindungwe; Andrew Tshuma; Admire Banda (Tafara Chese 84th min); Arlton Ndlovu (Ted Ncube 61st min); Shepherd Gadzikwa (Gilbert Zulu 24 min); Ernest Gwitima; Dingani Maphosa Manica Diamonds: Jorum Muchambo; Lawrence Masibera; Pritchard Mpelele; Partson Jaure; Carlton Munzambwa; Timire Mamvura; Tendai Kachembere (Jeffrey Takunda 66th min); Marshal Mudehwe (Stephen Sibanda 66th min); Tendai Mukomo; Ishmael Lawe; Benjamin Marere —  @tobymandox