The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS will go all out for goals when they go on a collision course with Caps United at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow in a clear declaration of their rules of engagement in this Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match. With the encounter likely to be witnessed by a bumper crowd after the two teams’ sponsors, Netone, undertook to go ’50-50’ with the paying fans, Bosso might, come end of 90 minutes, be swimming in double delight – points and a fat bank balance – at least if it all goes according to the wishes of the technical team. “We are going all out for goals on Sunday and hopefully that will help us win the match, even though we know that Caps United too want those three points,” said assistant coach Bekithemba “Super” Ndlovu. He said they have been working hard at training to try and make sure the boys convert the numerous chances that they have been creating in the two major friendlies they had and the season opener against Black Rhinos in Harare last Saturday. “We need to defend well too because we are playing against an experienced side with speedy forwards but we really hope that with the game plan we have put up, we will be able to score one, two or more goals,” said the former Bosso skipper, a veteran of many bruising battles during his illustrious career at both club and national team level. Caps United come to Bulawayo bubbling with confidence after their perfect start to the season in which they beat Manica Diamonds 2-0 through goals by John Zhuwawo and diminutive Joel Ngodzo, two players that Bosso have to keep an eagle’s eye on as well as their former vice captain Gabriel Nyoni, if coach Lloyd Chitembwe decides to throw him into the fray. History has not been kind to returning former Bosso sons at Emagumeni, especially those whose departure would have been unexpected. Highlanders on the other hand have an array of attackers from which coach Madinda Ndlovu will choose from but almost certain to start will be Prince Dube and Zambian import Peter Nyirenda. Another attack minded player with equally good defensive attributes that Bosso will likely start with will be Godfrey ‘Baba Jukwa’ Makarutse who will be one of the four midfielders alongside Brian Banda, holding midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku and stylish Denzel Khumalo. The back line will be marshalled by one of the most consistent players last season, McClive ‘Skippy’ Phiri, who operates from the right while the central defence will have Peter Muduhwa and lanky youngster Andrew Mbeba. The left back position will be a particularly tricky choice for the coaches as any of the duo of Mbekezeli Sibanda and Mbongeni Ndlovu have what it takes for that department. Naturally the last line of defence will have the reigning Goalkeeper of the Year Ariel Sibanda who is believed to be under an eagle’s eye from a European based second tier outfit. Matches between the two sides, regardless of the result, have always left fans asking for more and tomorrow’s duel is not expected to deviate from that. Caps coach Chitembwe told our Harare Bureau that he expects a tough tour of duty in Bulawayo as his side had not yet reached the expected levels of being competitive. “We are expecting a very difficult game against Highlanders. It’s never easy playing Highlanders especially at Barbourfields,” said Chitembwe. Meanwhile, Highlanders will today be joined by Caps United and their sponsors, NetOne, for a roadshow meant to market tomorrow’s game and preach peace among the fans. It will start at the Highlanders offices at 9AM and end at 4PM. The roadshow, which will go through the Central Business District, will proceed to the western suburbs along Luveve Road. It will have stopovers in Nguboyenja, Entumbane, Cowdray Park, Magwegwe North, Nkulumane Sekusile, Nketa Munyoro and Bellevue.