The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls ONE of the country’s leading beverages manufacturers, Schweppes Holdings Africa Limited, has invested over RTGS$40 000 in cleaning material in Victoria Falls to help keep the prime tourism destination clean. Over the past seven years, Schweppes Holdings has jointly invested US$1,8 million in operating expenses and US$900 000 in capital expenses for a PET Recycling Company of Zimbabwe (PETRECOZIM), a company started by five companies within the beverage and packaging industries in Zimbabwe to address environmental pollution related to post-consumer PET. On Friday, the beverages company sponsored the National Clean-Up Day exercise held in the resort town where Vice President Kembo Mohadi was guest of honour. VP Mohadi commissioned five tri-cycles donated by Schweppes Holdings and handed certificates to 26 environment champions trained under the programme. The environment champions will help the local authority to move waste material from point of generation to keep the town in its pristine state. Schweppes managing director Mr Charles Msipa said participating in environmental activities was important in the beverage company’s sustainability programmes. “The biggest challenge in waste management is movement of waste resources from the point of generation to the next level of the value chain. We are making this presentation and giving financial support to waste management activities in Victoria Falls,” he said. “It’s from this background that we are presenting five waste collection tri-cycles for use in Victoria Falls by community waste management champions and to help movement of waste material from point of generation to collection points. “We encourage other organisations to do the same because it is the right thing to do and it does come with financial benefits if well implemented in addition to the social and environmental benefits.” The bikes were provided after the realisation that waste collectors such as women and youths were carrying huge sacks on their backs. Schweppes also donated waste collection materials, protective clothing and training for 26 community waste management champions. “This is to complement Government’s environment clean-up efforts hence we are sponsoring training for 26 environmental champions based in Victoria Falls to carry out voluntary clean-up services in the resort town. The aim is to assist the community to maintain the tourism environment clean,” he added. Schweppes’ commercial and public affairs director, Mrs Unaiswi Nyikadzino said the company adopted strict environmental policies that include tracking of carbon emissions to enable reduction of carbon footprint and to mitigate the negative effects of climate change. “The responsibility of looking after the environment in various ways falls on each and every citizen and we’re playing our part as a responsible corporate citizen to keep Zimbabwe clean,” said Mrs Nyikadzino. Schweppes is an integrated company with a diverse portfolio consisting of juice concentrates, pastes, purees and Coca-Cola franchised cordials, fruit juices and still water. It operates five production plants and eight distribution centres around Zimbabwe and exports to South Africa, Namibia, Mozambique, Botswana, Zambia and Israel. The company runs sustainability environment strategies and has set-up structures in major towns and cities including Victoria Falls where it partnered with Environment Africa Trust. — @ncubeleon.