The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent Winky D who was one of the headline acts at the ZITF Shutdown party at Queens Sports Grounds on Saturday night, led thousands of revellers in observing a minute of silence in honour of the late national hero, Dr Oliver Mtukudzi before his performance. Just before he made the stage his own, Winky D took time to remember Tuku who he collaborated with on the track Panorwadza Moyo. “Before I start, I want us to observe a moment of silence to remember the greatest musician that our country produced, Oliver Mtukudzi. “Please join me in doing so through observing a minute of silence,” said Winky D. Thereafter Winky D played the song Panorwadza Moyo and the crowd sang along.Panorwadza Moyo is an emotive song that asks why we are losing our loved ones through death. After the sombre moment, Winky D got down to business and he lived up to his billing. Messi weReggae as he is referred to by his legion of fans, Winky D kept the revellers on their feet throughout.He took the revellers down memory lane with songs such as Controversy, Disappear, Finhu Finhu and the latest blockbuster MuGarden. He left the stage like a president, surrounded by a group of menacing looking bouncers who escorted him to his car as people asked for more. Jah Prayzah took over the wheel and although he was very entertaining, the bar had been set too high by Winky D. Most musicians now dread to perform after Winky D as they find it diffucult to match his standard. Jah Prayzah was however equal to the task as he also kept revellers on their feet with his popular songs such as Watora Mari, Nziyo Yerudo, Eriza, Ndin’Ndamubata and his latest Dzamutsana. He seemed to have fallen in love with the high density suburb of Mzilikazi as he kept on asking: “Mzilikazi Muriko here?” And it was for a reason. The track Dangerous from his latest album Chitubu praises a lady from Mzilikazi for being dangerously beautiful. Earlier Takura warmed up the stage and represented the hip hop community well. He was a marvel to watch and fans sang along to his music with the most famous being Zino irema. Sungura Masters and Novuyo Seagirl also had a great day in office. DJ Nospa on his part proved that he is one of the top wheel spinners from Bulawayo and possibly Zimbabwe. Zimdancehall duo  Garry B and Godfather Templeman closed off the show and ended their set in the wee hours of Sunday.