The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter MATABELELAND South province has embarked on a science laboratory construction project in schools to improve the quality of science learning and produce better results in the subjects. Lack of science laboratories at schools in Matabeleland South has been blamed for poor performance by schools in this part of the country. In an interview yesterday, Matabeleland South provincial education director Mr Lifias Masukume said the province had an ongoing programme to build science labs at schools in the province, with one at Zezani High School in Beitbridge already complete. “We have a vigorous lab construction project that will definitely improve the quality of learning in our schools. A state of the art lab was completed at Zezani High School last month and will cater for more than 500 pupils at the school. “At Vembe and St Mary’s High Schools in Beitbridge we’re also constructing labs and they’re nearing completion. At St Joseph Secondary School in Matobo District another lab is under construction as well as Valukhalo Secondary School in Mangwe District,” said Mr Masukume. He said plans were also underway to construct another lab at Shangani Secondary school. Mr Masukume said the construction of the laboratories will go a long way in improving the quality of education in the province and giving pupils the opportunity to learn and excel in science subjects. Most schools in Matabeleland South province continue to face an acute shortage of Mathematics and Science teachers as well as resources including laboratories for teaching the subjects. A majority of pupils in secondary schools around the province major in arts subjects due to lack of science subjects in schools. Last month President Mnangagwa said he was not happy that most pupils in the province were not being taught science subjects, which are vital in preparing pupils for a modern economy. The President directed the Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development, Professor Amon Murwira and the Minister of Primary and Secondary Education Professor Paul Mavima to ensure that science subjects are taught at most schools in Beitbridge. He is also on record as urging students to take science subjects and emerging new fields of study as Government escalates the drive to modernise the economy in line with the fast changing world.