The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls PREPARATIONS for the second edition of the Victoria Falls’ Mapopoma Festival are underway with organisers scouting for a venue closer to town. The inaugural event in December last year was held at Zambezi house, a venue some felt was too far considering it is on the outskirts of town thereby making it hard to access. About 5 000 people attended the festival which ran concurrently with the Victoria Falls Carnival (December 29 to 31) where the line-up was made up of locals. For this year, event organiser, Patrick Musonza said he is hoping to have South African artists and wants the event to attract up to 15 000 revellers. The event will be held on the same dates as last year – December 29 to 31. Popularly known as DJ Spevar, Musonza said a suitable venue closer to town had been identified and will be announced soon together with the South African artists. “Last year, we noticed that the venue wasn’t ideal as it was far from town and party lovers complained about transport. “This festival needs the whole year to plan and in January we secured a new venue in town. We expect the festival to attract 15 000 revellers this year,” DJ Spevar said. He said this year’s festival is about Ubuntu and the inclusion of South African acts will upgrade it to a regional festival. In future, DJ Spevar said they will invite at least one artiste from the Sadc region to perform at the festival. After running last year’s show from personal funds, Musonza said he was glad that sponsors have come on board for this year’s edition.  He is also in talks with a local modelling agency so that he makes some of the models brand ambassadors for the festival. DJ Spevar said he will hold a pre-Mapopoma festival in August that will be headlined by a local artist in preparation for the December  festival. The Mapopoma Festival which was embraced by Vic Falls locals last year, is a platform for the town’s residents to enjoy local talent. It brings together diverse cultures of ethnic groups along the Zambezi River and revitalises traditional activities through music and dance hence promoting domestic tourism and regional cohesion. It is also a good alternative for those who may not have money to attend the carnival. @ncubeleon