The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara/Leonard Ncube, Chronicle Reporters PREPARATIONS for the country’s 39th Independence Day celebrations have commenced in Matabeleland provinces. In an interview, Bulawayo Provincial Administrator Mrs Khonzani Ncube said Independence preparations were on course in the province. She said there would be a fundraising dinner on April 17 to assist charity organisations in the city. “As usual we hold the Independence Ball on the eve of Independence Day where all the funds raised will be channelled towards charity and vulnerable groups in the city. We therefore invite the Bulawayo community to buy tickets through our accountant,” said Mrs Ncube. She said the Independence Ball would be held at the Large City Hall and diamond tickets are going for $25 individual and $250 for a table of 10. Mrs Ncube said Independence celebrations would be held at White City Stadium where everyone is invited to celebrate the country’s hard won independence. “A lot is lined up for the main event at White City Stadium where we will have our celebrations. There will be food and drinks for everyone as we will be celebrating and there will be lots of entertainment as well,” she said. Provincial Administrators for Matabeleland North and Matabeleland South said they have started receiving donations both in cash and kind for the celebrations. “We’ve had two preparatory meetings so far and some of our traditional sponsors have since donated cash while we still expect more to come forward. We’re aware that this year things are tough so we will have to make do with what we have,” said Matabeleland North Provincial Administrator Ms Latiso Dlamini. She said the province was targeting to raise $15 000 in cash and kind to successfully host the celebrations at Somhlolo Stadium. A final preparatory meeting will be held in Lupane during the week where a determination will be made whether to hold an Independence Ball. “We know that farmers won’t be able to donate much because of drought so we will accept whatever they will give because we want to celebrate this day. Most of our sponsors usually give in kind hence we don’t usually have a target amount of money but we feel $15 000 worth of goods and cash will be enough,” said Ms Dlamini. “Our biggest challenge could be fuel for vehicles to carry people to the celebrations and we look forward to well-wishers who can help in that regard so that we have huge numbers.” Matabeleland South Provincial Administrator Mrs Sithandazile Ncube said an Independence Ball dinner will be held on April 17 starting at 6PM. She said the province expects to raise $10 000 for the celebrations to be held at Phelandaba Stadium in Gwanda. “We have started mobilising resources as usual. We usually accept both cash and kind but mostly we are looking at food and fuel. We are hopeful that well-wishers will come on board and I think by next week we will be having updated information on who has donated what,” she said. Both provinces are organising soccer matches as part of independence celebrations.