The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter ZIMBABWE has joined 45 other countries that have been certified “China Ready”, an initiative that guarantees worthwhile experiences for Chinese investors and tourists. Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Priscah Mupfumira officially launched the China Ready Training Programme in Harare over the weekend. “The nation joins 45 countries who have been certified China Ready, guaranteeing memorable experiences for Chinese visitors and tourists. The China Ready training prepares Zimbabwe to host Chinese tourists,” the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) said in a statement after the launch. It said the Asian nation was the largest outbound source market, the highest spender and has 18,4 percent of the world’s population. “These exceptional statistics require Zimbabwe to be China Ready if the destination is to tap into this market,” said ZTA. The training, the authority said, was meant to ensure players in the tourism industry understand the needs of the Chinese tourists or tourist market. The training encourages the creation of the right packages for the Chinese tourists keeping in mind that security and safety are the most important factors the Chinese consider when selecting a holiday destination. Speaking at the launch, Minister Mupfumira was quoted expressing the need for the sector to look at the Chinese market more seriously. “Anyone ignoring China at this moment can do so at their own peril given that the country is now globally acknowledged as a vital source market. “The Chinese have spent over US$115 billion globally in outbound tourism expenditure in 2018 and are projected by the UNWTO to double the current outbound trips to 200 million by 2020,” she said. ZTA acting chief executive Mrs Rita Likukuma said: “l hope the discussions deliberated on during the official launch of the China Ready training programme will help everyone to think not only on what we are doing, but also how we are doing it so that in the end we deliver the results that improve the way we do business with the Chinese market”. The tourism authority said the China Ready training programme was welcomed by the delegates and they all concurred that it was now easier to understand the Chinese tourists and their preferences. Recommendations on how to make the airports, restaurants, hotels and other ancillary services more user friendly for the Chinese were made by the training programme’s facilitator, Dr Lee Marcus. – @okazunga.