The Chronicle Tendai Rupapa Infertility is a condition that affects many couples trying to conceive. In Zimbabwe, many women failing to bow to societal pressures end up suffering from depression as blame is usually put on them. Pushed by society’s expectations to have babies as soon as couples marry, many women have sad tales of being forced to drink bitter concoctions, raw eggs mixtures and sometimes having herbs stashed into their private parts exposing them to risks of cervical cancer. In some extreme cases, they have been raped by self-proclaimed prophets and traditional healers who always claim the womb is contaminated by mainly some goblins or evil spirits that need to be ‘exorcised’ by these healers’ sexual organs – so devastating. Women in such relationships suffer the most, as some communities force them to have clandestine extra-marital affairs with their husbands’ brothers — ignoring some of the challenges associated with unsafe sex such as HIV and Aids virus. There are also cases of genital mutilation procedures to remove (Sare) from some women which these ‘healers’ claim causes barrenness. The tales are heartrending and gruesome. However, the First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa, after being touched by the plight of these women and families is working on a number of initiatives to give them hope. Amai Mnangagwa, who is the ambassador for maternal and childcare in Zimbabwe recently attended a summit of First Ladies in Dubai on access to improved innovative health care and people’s well-being which was organised by Merck foundation and attracted over 18 countries. She was then appointed ambassador for “Merck — More than a Mother” in Zimbabwe to help break the stigma associated with infertility among couples. The foundation will train medical personnel from Zimbabwe in various specialities including infertility issues in India starting this year, thanks to Amai Mnangagwa. Addressing the couples at Zimbabwe House on Monday at a social gathering, the First Lady said the condition of being unable to have children is not a new phenomenon or unique to Zimbabwe, but it is universal across nations and cultures. She urged the nation not to discriminate against people with fertility challenges, but should accept them with love and dignity. “Nyaya yaita kuti ndikudanei nhasi inyaya yekuti kwandakaenda kuDubai kwakabuda nyaya dzakawanda dzinofanira kuti dzibatsire madzimai kunyanya,” she said. “Nyaya yakanyanya kutaurika ndeye infertility and we discovered that nyaya iyi yange yakanyanya kunyararwa zvikuru munyika yekwedu. “Nokudaro ndoda kuti nyaya iyi izikanwe zvakanyanya munyika muno tigoramba tichidzidzisana mumhuri kuti zvinhu zvakadai zvinowanikwa, hazvinei kuti ndiri munhu mutema kana kuti .… The condition of being unable to have children is not a new phenomenon or unique to Zimbabwe, but it is universal across nations and cultures.” The First Lady said the issue of stigma was also topical during the discussions at the summit. “Infertility is a worldwide health issue and stigma of being labelled as infertile is not something anyone wants. “Ndinoda kuti nyika yekwedu izive kuti matambudziko iwawa ekushaya mbereko tinawo mumhuri dzedu uye tizive kuti tinozvigashira sei, tobatsirana sei. “Vakaroorerwa ngavatigamuchire nezvatiri ndiko kuti mudzimba tigarisane zvakanaka and avoid domestic violence. “We can all agree that it is an expectation of every couple to have their own off-spring asi ibasa resociety, vavakidzani, hama nesu tose kuti tisimbisane nevamwe vedu vane dambudziko rakaita seiri. “In most cases, if a couple fails to conceive, the blame is immediately placed on the woman yet both of them (husband and wife) are equally responsible,” she said. She said Merck Foundation training in infertility issues will go a long way in changing people’s perceptions in the country and fighting stigma. She added that journalists would be trained on writing informed articles about infertility and addressing stigma. The First Lady said she had lined up various programmes that include fashion shows, music and dramas that would bring out themes and messages in a bid to change society’s perception on infertility. “We are going to have fashion shows and awards will be given to designers and artistes, film makers who will produce dramas and movies that alert our people about the issues of infertility will also be awarded,” she said.  “Zvese izvi tinenge tichizviitira kuti stigma isarambe iripo uye kunetsana mudzimba kusarambe kuripo nekusabatana mudzi mhuri kupere.” Amai Mnangagwa said unavailability of fertility clinics in public institutions was a cause forconcern. She said processes such as In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) were beyond the reach of ordinary Zimbabweans since they are only accessible in private institutions. She, however, said there is hope as the doctors who are going to be trained under Merck Foundation, will bring the expertise home adding that it was her wish to see many fertility clinics established in public institutions. Family Health Director in the Ministry of Health and Child Care, Dr Bernard Madzima, applauded the First Lady for giving maximum attention to fertility issues and confirmed that the issue was not being given the attention it deserved in the country. He said they have already received 50 applications from doctors across the country who want to be trained. Doctor Madzima imparted knowledge to the couples on factors that may cause infertility and how to overcome some of them. It was an emotional moment when the couples took turns to narrate their ordeals to the First Lady with some women shedding tears. They told Amai the challenges they are facing in their homes and communities. “Amai, there is nothing that we did not eat, drink or put into our privates. We went to various places seeking help hoping that one day we would receive fruits of the womb,” said Mrs Melody Mugijima. “It is now 14 years in marriage but I am yet to conceive but I have come to accept that God’s time is the best. “At one time due to pressure from in-laws side, I asked my husband to try having a child with another woman, but he refused and said he would stand by me through thick and thin. True to his word, we are still together, happily married.” Mr Dennifer Buka (48) said he has been with his wife Benhilda (41) for the past 22 years and are yet to be blessed with a child. He said though some of his family members advised him to divorce his wife, he decided not to listen to them but instead wait upon the Lord. “I love my wife and no one will separate us. We have faith, one-day God will hear our prayers and give us not just a child but children,” he said. Mrs Buka concurred with her husband’s testimony saying he has been supportive. She thanked the First Lady for leading the initiative of bringing awareness. Others who have made peace with their biological realities are opting for foster parenting and adoption. Gospel musician, Rumbidzai Muparutsa, who has been married for eight years said after discovering that she had fertility problems she spoke to her husband who agreed to adopt a child. She, however, said the adoption process was not an easy road adding that the system was lengthy and emotionally draining. Some of the women told the First Lady that they were at the fostering stage with the intention to adopt. Amai Mnangagwa promised to engage the department of social welfare. Another woman broke down explaining how she had to endure drinking three crates of raw eggs mixed with cooking oil at an apostolic shrine, she is one of the many who have gone through unmentionable ordeals in search of the fruit of the womb. Sensia Maponga, founder of Hannah’s Tears, applauded the First Lady for standing with them and giving them a shoulder to lean on. The First Lady has been a bearer of hope for many women with her initiatives aimed at enhancing their well-being, with this one on fertility being the latest.