The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Government has paid over US$10 000 for the Zimbabwe Netball Association (Zina)’s participation in the Vitality Netball World Cup set for Liverpool, England, in June. The money, however, is not enough to meet other necessities like air tickets as it is only a tenth of the total budget of US$100 000 presented by Zina president Leticia Chipandu in December 2018. “Whatever has been paid so far has been from the Government and its in excess of US$10 000, as you know there are other payment requirements that have to be met prior to the start of the tournament. As the SRC, we support all national associations, but our helping hand might not be enough and indeed Zina needs all the corporate support that it can get,” said SRC director-general, Prince Mupazviriho. He said the girls need to thoroughly prepare for the jamboree, which will be the country’s maiden appearance. “We need proper preparations and that include friendly matches to fine tune us ahead of the finals, camping and other incidentals and all this needs funding. Zina is currently seized with fundraising activities and as SRC we are in full support of those activities,” he said. The Zina leadership seems to have sat on its laurels soon after qualifying for the World Cup in August last year. They wasted time fighting with the breakaway Rainbow Amateur Netball League, which enjoys sponsorship from Glow Petroleum. “Instead of planning and preparing for the World Cup finals, Zina spent its energy fighting a losing battle against Ranl and now when there is little time left that is when they start running around,” said an observer. Due to the neglect the senior national netball team has been subjected to, the girls are preparing for the biggest tournament of their lives while camped at St Peter’s Primary School in Mbare, Harare, where Chipandu is a teacher. Zimbabwe, who are ranked 13th in the world, have been drawn in Group A alongside defending champions Australia, Northern Ireland and reigning Asian champions, Sri Lanka.