The Chronicle Eddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau Caps Utd 4 – 1 Bulawayo Chiefs CAPS UNITED conceded their first goal of the season but their superior firepower meant they easily crushed Bulawayo Chiefs to continue their flying start to the new Castle Lager Premiership football campaign at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. The Green Machine made light work of the minnows with goals from their speed merchant Gabriel Nyoni, Dominic Chungwa and Joel Ngodzo after Chiefs midfielder Takunda Muzuva had handed the hosts the lead via an own goal under pressure to defend from a corner in the 11th minute. Arthur Musiyiwa got the consolation goal for Amakhosi Amahle midway through the second half to give Chiefs their first goal of the season. Interestingly this was also the first time the Caps United defence was breached in their opening four games. The Green Machine dominated the exchanges from the start and they surged ahead early when Muzuva, in his desperate attempt to keep John Zhuwawu under check in a corner kick situation, ended up turning the ball into his own nets. Nyoni doubled the lead when he expertly controlled an aerial ball from Mwanjale which cut across the whole length of the pitch and landed inside the penalty box. The pacy forward used his chest well to subdue the high ball and neatly chipped over the badly exposed goalkeeper David Bizabani for Makepekepe’s second goal of the afternoon via the upright post. Caps United came back from the breather with the same zest and they added another goal through Chungwa whose perfect diving header from a cross by Phineas Bamusi snuggled to the far left of the goalkeeper. Ngodzo then killed off the game with a well-taken shot from inside the box after Nyoni had won the ball in a tight hustle with two defenders at the by-line. Chiefs could have hit back at the hour mark when Thomas Chideu beat the off-side trap in a counter-attack but the former Zimbabwe youth international failed to take his shot on time before the defenders recovered. Makepekepe were not so lucky three minutes later when goalkeeper Chigumba failed to deal with a high ball, leaving Musiyiwa to head into an empty goal at the back post. This was the first goal for Bulawayo Chiefs and it was also the first time Makepekepe have conceded in four games apiece. Chiefs had not scored in over 360 minutes of Premiership action this year. Teams Caps United: P. Chigumba, V. Musarurwa, V. Ndaba, M. Mwanjale, G. Goriyati, B. Sarupinda, P. Bhamusi, J. Ngodzo (K. Nyamupfukudza, 89th minute), G. Nyoni (N. Sianchali, 70th minute), J. Zhuwawu, D. Chungwa (R. Chitiyo, 86th minute). Bulawayo Chiefs: D. Bizabani, S. Nyahwa, A. Musiyiwa, M. Mkolo, L. Matizirofa, T. Muzuva, T. Mthimkhulu (T. Chideu, 31st minute), L. Ndlela (S. Mhlanga, 56th minute), B. Mpofu, K. Chakanyuka (M. Majika, 65th minute), P. Sibanda.