The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League championship hopefuls Chicken Inn are angling for a win when they play host to defending champions FC Platinum in their next encounter. Chicken Inn’s wings were clipped by Ngezi Platinum Stars, who ended the Bulawayo side’s 100 percent record with a 1-0 win courtesy of a Bruno Mtigo goal. The loss saw Chicken Inn surrendering top spot to defending champions FC Platinum, who handed Hwange their first defeat of the season to take their points’ tally to 10 from four matches. FC Platinum downed Hwange 2-0 at Mandava Stadium. Chicken Inn and Hwange are tied on nine points, with the former second on the table due to a better goal difference. Chicken Inn coach Joey Antipas said the defeat to Ngezi was a wake-up call, a perfect reality check of their character. “It’s important to bounce back and regain what you lost. We face the current champions (FC Platinum) in our next game, which is going to be a tough fixture. To be honest, we didn’t take our A-game to Ngezi; we just didn’t come to the party and Ngezi played a top game. They’re (Ngezi) a team that will get better with time,” said Antipas. “I think we got a slap from Ngezi, which is a good reality check. The defeat coming this early in the season gives us time to work on our shortcomings because the championship race is a marathon event in which you will lose some games, draw and win. What is important is to dust ourselves up and look to the future”. Chicken Inn, who were league champions in 2015, will have to battle against the odds as history favours FC Platinum to win. The Gamecocks have faced FC Platinum eight times at home, winning once, 2-0 in 2013. They’ve played to four draws and lost three games to the Zvishavane-based miners. “History matters little in the game of football and what is important is the players’ mindset. If we’re psychologically ready, have more desire to win than our opponents and play to the best of our abilities, we will certainly get a positive result,” said Antipas. Chicken Inn will bank on home advantage against FC Platinum, having won their two matches in Bulawayo, beating ZPC Kariba 3-1 and Dynamos 2-0. Hwange will also be out to keep their flame burning and recover from the FC Platinum defeat when they host Manica Diamonds at the Colliery Stadium. – @ZililoR.