The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Premier Soccer League side, Bulawayo City, fired early warning shots in the Southern Region Division One League by mauling hapless league debutants Arenel Movers 5-0 on Saturday. City were demoted from the Premier Soccer league following a nightmare 2018 campaign and hope to emulate Hwange with a quick Premiership return. Former How Mine and Manica Diamonds midfielder, Thembani Masuku, struck a brace for City with the other goals coming from Trevor Ndlovu, Lucky Nyathi and former Herentals player, Hugh Chikosa. Ndlovu also missed a penalty. Despite being the league’s opening weekend’s top scorers, City coach Try Ncube said they still have to work more on their finishing and guard against complacency. “It was a good game, which we were all happy to win. Even though we scored a lot of goals, I believe we still have lots of work to do. We did well in many aspects of the game, but we need to work on our finishing. We created lots of scoring opportunities that I feel we should have turned away,” said Ncube. “Going forward, I don’t want us to read much from this victory because this scoreline can be deceiving to players. We just have to keep guard, work hard and avoid complacency. We need to try and maintain the momentum and collect as many maximum points as possible.” City next face Victoria Falls-based Mosi Rovers, who were inactive at the weekend following cancellation of their game against Nengasha, who are yet to affiliate to the league. Also considered among championship contenders are Talen Vision, who came from a goal down to beat Makomo 3-1, as well as ZPC Hwange. Ex-Hwange and Bulawayo City midfielder Justine Kaunda scored for Makomo before Mlungisi Ncube equalised on the stroke of half-time for Talen Vision. Ncube completed his brace in the 47th minute, tapping in a perfect pass from veteran, Heritein Masuku, from the left. Vision put the game to bed courtesy of an 83rd minute goal by Adonis Nyoni, who benefitted from Mthulisi Sibanda’s cross. A waterlogged pitch led to the cancellation of ZPC Hwange and CIWU’s encounter in Hwange. Bosso 90 collected maximum points on the road, beating Main Line 2-1 in Plumtree courtesy of goals by Innocent Chifamba and Brighton Makopa. Brian Mlonyeni got the consolation goal for Main Line. Indlovu Iyanyathela made sure Ajax Hotspurs had a forgetable return to the First Division with a 1-0 win. Desire Manyenga grabbed the sole goal. Southern Region Week 1 results Friday: Talen Vision 3-1 Makomo Saturday: Arenel Movers 0-5 Bulawayo City, Moto Moto v Casmyn (Cancelled), Binga Pirates 1-2 Toronto, Main Line 1-2 Bosso 90, ZPC Hwange v CIWU (Cancelled), Ajax Hotspurs 0-1 Indlovu Iyanyathela, Mosi Rovers v Nengasha (Cancelled). — @ZililoR.