The Chronicle Tadious Manyepo, Harare Bureau CAPS United coach, Lloyd Chitembwe, has predicted a tough encounter against Highlanders but remains confident that his charges will prevail when the two teams clash in the biggest fixture of the Week Two programme at Barbourfields on Sunday. The Green Machine are coming from a fine season-opening victory over new boys, Manica Diamonds, a result which Chitembwe believes gave his team some confidence ahead of the epic clash. But the gaffer knows Bosso are a tricky customer especially when they are playing at their Barbourfields fortress. Highlanders will be desperate to get their season going after they dropped two points in their 1-1 draw against Black Rhinos last week. Makepekepe have been boosted by the recovery of striker Dominic Chungwa who was initially feared to miss action for at least a fortnight after he hobbled off with a groin sprain last week. Chitembwe has declared all his players fit for selection in the build-up to the clash. “We are expecting a very difficult game against Highlanders on Sunday. It’s never easy playing Highlanders especially at Barbourfields,” said Chitembwe. “It is going to be a very difficult game. It’s important to win games. That’s obviously the reason why we train and compete.” Chitembwe reckons his team is not yet in the shape he wants them to be. “We are not yet a finished product. There are still a lot of things that I personally feel we need to work on for us to be at a level where we really feel that we are ready to win games. “So we still have a lot of work to do. The game against Highlanders hasn’t come too early because we are both big teams needing to win at all costs. “But I am sure we have the capacity and the belief to go out there and compete. Our aim is to go out there and win.” Chitembwe’s team boasts of former Highlanders players including Newman Sianchali, Gabriel Nyoni as well as Valentine Ndaba but the mentor has no special instruction for them. “There are no any special instructions which I am giving former Highlanders players like Gabriel Nyoni and Newman Sianchali. I believe they are professionals and know what it means to play in a big game.”