The Chronicle Tobias Mandoreba in Hwange Hwange 2-1 Ngezi Platinum RED-hot Hwange FC continued their blistering start to the 2019 Castle Lager Premier League campaign by downing a fighting Ngezi Platinum Stars at the Colliery Stadium yesterday. Those who thought the coalminers’ win over DeMbare last weekend in Harare was a fluke needed to be at yesterday’s game to witness some sheer determination and fluidity by a team that just bounced back into the PSL at the beginning of the season after being demoted in 2017. At the end of this memorable game, an own goal by Donald Teguru and a header by striker Ernest Gwitima ensured Chipangano mantain a perfect start by notching three wins on the trot. Hwange had two great chances in the opening 10 minutes fluffed by Arlton Ndlovu and speedster Shepherd Gadzikwa before Ngezi Platinum Stars almost broke the deadlock in the 22nd minute after a Michael Charamba pile driver crashed against the left upright with Hwange goalkeeper Taimon Mvula rooted to the same spot. The drum beating home fans then went into a rapture in the 28th minute after Teguru deflected a well taken free kick by left-back Nomore Chinyerere into his own net to give Hwange the lead. Ngezi Platinum Stars were not demoralised by the setback as they sniffed around for an equaliser which came in stoppage time of the opening half through Keith Murera, who connected a curling Charamba corner kick into the roof of the nets with a glancing header to leave the two teams on level pegging going into halftime. The visitors came back from the breather in menacing mood as they camped in the Hwange half with some incessant attacks and with their tempo increasing, especially after the introduction of Liberty Chakoroma for Bruno Mtigo in the 65th minute. All Ngezi Platinum Stars’ hard work came to nought 10 minutes from time when Hwange launched a swift counter attack on the right flank, which saw midfielder Eddie Nkulungo send in a teasing cross that was met with a glancing header by Gwitima to seal Ngezi Platinum Stars’ fate. Hwange coach Nation Dube was elated after the match. “I am a happy man. These two wins on the trot are special as they are coming against big sides in the league. We take each game as it comes and I hope we can mantain the momentum,” said Dube. Ngezi Platinum Stars’ gaffer Erol Akbay lamented the lack of a cutting edge upfront. “We have to convert the chances we get in games and besides we played some long balls which never took us anywhere,” said a visibly worried Akbay. Teams Hwange: Taimon Mvula; Gift Mulenga( Gilbert Zulu 68th min); Nomore Chinyerere; Gerald Ndlovu; Felex Chindungwe; Admire Banda; Eddie Nkhulungo; Arlton Ndlovu( Ted Ncube 68th min); Shepherd Gadzikwa;Ernest Gwitima( Tafara Chese 88th minute); Dingani Maphosa. Ngezi Platinum Stars : Tatenda Munditi; Michael Charamba(Osi Miniru 68th min); Malon Mushonga; Polite Moyo; James Nguluve; Frank Makarati; Wayne Makuva; Bruno Mtigo(Liberty Chakoroma 65th min); Barnabus Mushunje; Keith Murera           ( Kenneth Bulaji 53rd min); Donald Teguru. —  @tobymandox