The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent THE District Development Fund (DDF) requires more than $4 million to repair bridges that were destroyed by Cyclone Dineo in 2017 in Matabeleland South Province. In an interview, DDF Matabeleland South provincial co-ordinator, Mr Moment Malandu, said seven bridges which fall under DDF were destroyed by the cyclone and so far they have managed to repair four using funds allocated by Government. He said there was a need to repair the remaining bridges as motorists were struggling to access certain areas. “I wouldn’t know what other road authorities suffered during Cyclone Dineo but as DDF we lost seven bridges. We have repaired four and we still have three that still need to be repaired- two in Gwanda and one in Beitbridge. “We need about $1,5 million for each bridge which brings the total needed for the three bridges to about $4,5 million. There is a need to repair these bridges as they are making it difficult for motorists to access certain areas. Motorists have been forced to take longer routes as a result of this misfortune,” Mr Malandu said. He said they were relying on funds allocated by Government to carry out these works and urged various stakeholders to come forward and assist with funds to develop infrastructure in the province. Mr Malandu said some of the projects which they had lined up for the year include putting up a bridge in Siyoka area in Beitbridge, constructing a high level bridge across Mtshingwe River and constructing a bridge along the Montrose-Phaphama Road, both in Insiza. He said projects that were underway include routine maintenance of all roads in the province, drilling of boreholes and rehabilitation works at irrigation schemes. Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Abednico Ncube recently commissioned Emlageni Bridge in Insiza District which was also destroyed by Cyclone Dineo in 2017. The bridge, which is 106 metres and runs over Nkankezi River, was built by DDF using funds that were allocated by Government. The project is worth $318 537. The bridge connects Filabusi Business Centre with Mbondo, Avoca, West Nicholson and Mberengwa. —@DubeMatutu