The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Health Reporter ZIMBABWE on Tuesday marked World Autism Day with calls for the public to ensure they fight stigma, discrimination and human rights violations associated with the disorder. Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a developmental disorder that affects the brain functions of an individual and affected persons often find social interaction to be difficult or near impossible. ASD affects one in 160 children and tends to persist into adolescence and adulthood according to the Ministry of Health and Child Care. The disease is often misunderstood and people who have children with ASD may label them as “dull” thereby dooming them to a life of unproductivity and shame. However, ASD can be managed and one of the most famous sufferers who is also the world’s most highly paid movie star Dwayne (The Rock) Johnson is living testimony to that. The retired wrestler is on record saying those with the disorder can still be successful like himself. “It’s important to know that you are never alone in this community. Everyone is going to go through struggles but no matter the obstacle, whether it be having difficulty with autism, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder, dyslexia, you name it, you have a village out there to help support you,” said Mr Johnson while raising awareness on ASD. The Ministry of Health and Child Care in statement on Tuesday said: “Today is World Autism Awareness Day, a day commemorated in support of people living with Autism Spectrum Disorders. This year’s theme is ‘Assistive Technologies Active Participation’ and members of the public should remember autism is a developmental difference, not a disability.” People with autism also have problems with both non-verbal and verbal communication and they engage in a limited number of activities. The Ministry also said they may demonstrate a repetitive or restrictive behaviour in their daily activities. “The theme therefore calls on all of us to be deliberate in ensuring that we do not perpetrate stigma, discrimination and human rights violations against individuals suffering from ASD,” read the statement. The Ministry added that behavioural treatment and parent skills training programmes can reduce difficulties in communication and social behaviour on the wellbeing and quality of life for persons with ASD and their caregivers. @thamamoe