The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter DAVID Livingstone High School chess players dominated the 28-member Matabeleland North National Association of Secondary School Heads (Nash) provincial squad by contributing six participants. The Matabeleland North squad was selected in a competition held at Fatima High School on Friday and will represent the province in the national championships set for Victoria High School in Masvingo from April 11-14. A total of 205 learners from the six Matabeleland North districts, Binga, Hwange, Bubi, Umguza, Tsholotsho and hosts Lupane, took part in the provincial tournament. They were competing in seven boys’ and girls’ age groups; Under-13s, 14s, 15s, 16s, 17s, 18s and 20s. Nkayi were not represented. Umguza came first, getting six gold, five silver and eight bronze medals. Bubi were second with three gold, three silver and eight bronze, while Hwange finished third with two gold, three silver and a bronze. Tsholotsho were fourth with two gold and three silver, while Lupane had one gold and Binga failed to win any medal. Matabeleland North provincial head-in-charge of chess, Tirison Cheteni, the headmaster of Pashu High School in Binga, said the 28 participants were gold and silver medalists for each category. He said they are planning a two-day camp before leaving for Masvingo to work on players’ shortcomings. “We need a camp to address matters of concentration among players. If we could have two training days together to work on concentration, because some games stretch for three hours, I believe we will enhance our chances of doing well in Masvingo,” said Chiteni. Matabeleland North squad Girls Under-13: Mildred Ngoma (Fatima), Beauty Ramba (Inyathi) Under-14: Confidence Mhazo (St James), Tanyaradzwa Jera (Inyathi) Under-15: Basetsane Ngwenya (Inyathi), Roselyn Sigola (St James) Under-16: Nqobile Mathema (Inyathi), Tanaka Nkomo (David Livingstone) Under 17: Gugulethu Maphosa (David Livingstone), Happiness Siwela (Tshabanda) Under-18: Buhlebenkosi Ndebele (Dikili), Unathi Moyo (John Tallach) Under-20: Sandisiwe Sibanda (Dadani), Nyasha Dzingisa (Mosi-Oa-Tunya) Boys Under-13: Blessing Magaso (Tsholotsho), Mgcini Sibanda (Dinyana) Under-14: Menelisi Sibanda (David Livingstone), Great Gondo (David Livingstone) Under-15: Travis Makwatukwatu (David Livingstone), Munashe Chipara (John Tallach) Under-16: Medicine Mhango (John Tallach), Nkosenhle Ndlovu (Tsholotsho) Under-17: Ezra Jubane (Inyathi), Hopemore Gondo (David Livingstone) Under-18: Melusi Gama (Mosi-Oa-Tunya), Shelton Kadoko (Dadani) Under-20: Wayne Majazi (Mosi-Oa-Tunya), Siyabonga Mnkandla (Inyathi) Officials: Tirison Chiteni (Provincial head-in-charge, Pashu High School), Elvis Maphosa (arbiter, David Livingstone), Kripo Chivhenge (Dadani), Loyce Mabarutse (Pashu), Kudakwashe Ushe (Tsholotsho), Pym Mutubuki (Mosi-Oa-Tunya) — @ZililoR