The Chronicle Harare Bureau Government is working on plans to introduce potato production into its Command Agriculture programme, Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate and Rural Resettlement Minister Perrance Shiri has said. Speaking during a tour of Hwedza and Igava farms in Mashonaland East last week, Minister Shiri said potato production would sustain the country since reduced yields of maize were being expected this year. “We are bringing on board table potato production under the Command Agriculture programme, which will avert hunger and malnutrition,” he said. “This year, we are expecting reduced yields due to less rains that were received throughout the country. Therefore, we want to ensure that the nation has enough food supplies by increasing potato production.” Minister Shiri said potato production would enable the country to export surplus and generate foreign currency. “Potatoes can be a lucrative cash crop that generates foreign currency,” he said. “Zimbabwe has been importing potatoes from other countries and this can only be stopped if we empower our own farmers. “Command Agriculture programme’s aim is to support farmers so that we import less food. “The importation of goods compromises the sovereignty of the country. Let’s all support this programme.” Minister Shiri encouraged farmers to register for Command Wheat so that they plant early and as a result, produce good yields. “We are encouraging farmers to plant wheat early,” he said. “This year we managed to provide inputs on time to farmers who were contracted. “This year we want to achieve 60 000 hectares of wheat under Command and our partners such as PHI and Northern Farming are targeting 17 000 hectares. “If we manage to meet this target of 77 000 hectares, we’ll surely produce an average yield of five tonnes per hectare. We want bread to be readily available since it is a basic commodity.” Minister Shiri assured farmers that his ministry will engage the Energy and Power Development Ministry and look into power shortages affecting most farmers throughout the country. He revealed that Government had imported tractors from Brazil and Belarus. “We listened to farmers’ complaints about tillage challenges and we therefore imported tractors from Brazil and Belarus,” siad Minister Shiri. “We are currently negotiating with the John Deere company to manufacture tractors for us. “However, instead of waiting for Government’s aid, farmers should also play their part and buy their own equipment so that they get prioritised in Government’s programmes. “The Command Agriculture programme gives you the opportunity to develop your farms in terms of equipment.”