The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) is in the process of implementing a number of modalities as part of its response to calls for compensatory development, national healing and devolution by the Matabeleland Collective. President Mnangagwa last month met the Matabeleland Collective, a grouping of non-governmental organisations, faith-based organisations, community-based organisations, trusts, savings clubs and social movements from Bulawayo, Matabeleland North and Matabeleland South as part of the new dispensation’s thrust of collective engagement towards development. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mrs Virginia Mabhiza yesterday met the Matabeleland Collective in Bulawayo and announced the implementation matrix of the issues discussed during the previous meeting. “The Government, through the Ministry of Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage will facilitate the issuance of birth certificates and death certificates for victims affected by Gukurahundi. The ministry will also facilitate the exhumation and reburial of Gukurahundi victims. “We’re also implementing protection mechanisms for those affected by Gukurahundi to be free to discuss their experiences,” said Mrs Mabhiza. She said the Government, through the Ministries of Health and Child Care and Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare will provide medical assistance to victims of Gukurahundi. “Some people are still suffering from various pains inflicted on them during the disturbances. The Government will therefore facilitate that these people receive medical assistance,” said Mrs Mabhiza. She added that through the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate and Rural Resettlement, the Government will also prioritise the completion of the Matabeleland Zambezi Water project, which is expected to unlock economic value to communities. “The ministry and certain players that have been identified to look into the completion of the project are expected to give monthly updates on progress made until we can give timelines on the completion. “Another critical issue to be looked into is devolution, where we expect Government processes to be devolved by prioritising of local businesses in the awarding of tenders and giving locals first preference when filling positions,” said Mrs Mabhiza. She added that the improvement of social service delivery through provision of schools, clinics and clean water to needy areas will also be prioritised by the Government. Mrs Mabhiza said her ministry will also work with the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing to harmonise laws governing local authorities to ensure efficiency and ease in the implementation of devolution. “The harmonisation of laws is expected to be finalised in six months. We’re also going to work with the Ministry of Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises to ensure that there’s inclusivity of women in Parliament, Cabinet and governance structures. “We’ve also established a non-governmental organisation (NGO) and state engagement platform for sustained dialogue between the two parties,” said Mrs Mabhiza. She said her ministry had also resolved to extend the lifespan of the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission (NPRC) for continuous dialogue. Mrs Mabhiza added that the Home Affairs Ministry had also been tasked to investigate and report causes of police inaction and perceived insubordination during the 14 to 16 July protests. Matabeleland Collective convener Pastor Trevor Masuku commended the OPC for responding to concerns raised by the civic society. “We’re grateful that President Mnangagwa responded to the invitation for dialogue extended to him by the Matabeleland Collective and a meeting was successfully held last month. On this historic day, more than 70 organisations represented by over 100 civic and religious leaders had a two hour frank dialogue with the President and key issues were raised. “We called for the decriminalisation of Gukurahundi by allowing people to openly discuss their experiences. We also asked for true and factual notation on death certificates and the development of Matabeleland to be prioritised,” said Pastor Masuku. During last month’s meeting, President Mnangagwa hailed the interaction which he described as the first of its kind in terms of social dialogue. He also revealed that he had an open mind to listen to the people’s concerns. — @pamelashumba1