The Chronicle Leonard Ncube recently in Binga BINGA District has the potential to develop into a prime tourism destination and attract holiday makers from across the globe, a senior Government official has said. Speaking during a tour of Bulawayo Kraal Irrigation project in Binga on Tuesday, Deputy Chief Secretary in the Office of the President and Cabinet, Mr Justin Mupamhanga, said vast opportunities lie untapped in the Matabeleland North district. He said there was a potential for industrial growth through value addition on the existing traditional economic activity. Bulawayo Kraal Irrigation has potential to awaken Binga, said Mr Mupamhanga who was on a fact-finding mission towards implementation of the project, which is viewed as key in economic growth in remote Binga. He said the district has huge potential in agriculture as well. Mr Mupamhanga said there was potential for tourism activities such as camping, fishing and boating on the Zambezi River push back where the water pump station is located, as well as guided cultural tours among other tour activities. “Tourism can also be promoted here. With electricity now available here, fishing is now possible. There are a lot of fishermen in this region and they can now value-add by establishing cannery where fish can be packaged and exported to other districts and towns countrywide. “There is a need for urgent development of the 10km stretch of road from the irrigation to the river to trigger more activities in tourism such as fishing, boating and cultural tourism because this place is very unique,” said Mr Mupamhanga. The Deputy Chief Secretary said the country’s leadership wanted Bulawayo Kraal and the whole of Binga to be well structured and planned. He said this vision was driven by a desire to rejuvenate economies in remote communities towards industrial growth. Mr Mupamhanga said embracing information communication technologies in the district was also key to the vision. Binga District has a population of around 140 000, according to the 2012 census. While the most common connotations about Binga is its remoteness and the abundant fish and the tobacco-smoking Tonga women, little is said about its tourism potential. There are numerous world class camping sites and lodges along the Zambezi River, the hot springs, a sand beach, vast forests for bird viewers, wildlife, a crocodile farm, full moon gaze and others that can attract visitors if promoted. – @ncubeleon