The Chronicle Mkhululi Ncube, Chronicle Reporter ZIMBABWEANS have been urged to be the first to help their compatriots in times of disaster with foreign help only coming to complement local efforts. This was said by St Thomas Aquinas Primary School head, Mr Cuthbert Chiromo, during the send off of various groceries donated by the school for Cyclone Idai victims in Manicaland Province. Swift Transport volunteered to transport the goods. “It is an effort from the school and parents to help those people who were affected by the cyclone. We know that they need assistance and this assistance should come from us. Gone are the days when we used to have donors, we should be the first donors ourselves and whatever comes from outside should be over and above what we give ourselves,” said Mr Chiromo. He challenged other schools to also donate to cyclone victims. “I thank SWIFT as well for providing transport because these goods mean nothing with us here but when they reach Chimanimani they will be very useful,” Mr Chiromo said. The donation includes clothes, blankets, as well as food items such as mealie meal, sugar, beans and sanitary wear among others. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe Amalgamated Council of Churches (ZACC) on Monday handed over 90 bags of clothing, shoes and blankets to the Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Judith Ncube meant for Cyclone Idai victims. The council’s secretary general, Reverend Asmon Zihove, said the plight of Cyclone Idai survivors had touched the hearts of many people in their organisation. “We were touched by the plight of our brothers and sisters in Chimanimani so we felt that it was our duty to help them,” said Rev Zihove. Accepting the donation, Minister Ncube expressed gratitude to ZACC and the people of Bulawayo for showing support and love to the people who were affected by the disaster She said her office was still open for more donations. “I want to thank ZACC for standing in solidarity with Government and the affected communities. I am humbled to be with you today as we receive relief goods,” Minister Ncube said. —themkhust_ncube