The Chronicle Cloud Fusire, Harare Bureau SOMEHOW, the domestic Premiership bosses had to come up with a fixture in which Yadah Stars, who have their roots in a religious organisation, would open the Easter weekend programme with a match on Good Friday. The club, owned by prophet Walter Magaya, will host newboys, TelOne, at Rufaro tomorrow. Yadah came within seconds of securing their first win if the season only to concede a last- gasp goal and draw 2-2 against Herentals in their last match at the same venue.
Striker, Johannes Sibanda, struck twice for them that afternoon in a welcome return to form, after a miserable season last year. Tafadzwa Chitukutuku, who scored a last- minute equaliser in a draw between the two sides last year, was at it again with another last- goal equaliser for the Students. TelOne are coached by former Yadah Stars gaffer, Jairos Tapera. Meanwhile, Manica Diamonds coach, Luke Masomere, is defiant injuries will not ruin their bid for victory when they host Mushowani Stars in a Castle Lager Premiership match. The two sides clash at Gibbo on Easter Monday. The Gem Boys appeared full value for three points against Triangle in their last match only for their rivals to hit back with two late goals in a 2-2 draw. Masomere revealed up to 10 of his players, including key individuals like Partson Jaure and Wisdom Mutasa, were still sidelined. Wisdom Mutasa (left knee) and Marshall Mudehwe are also on the injury list. Striker, Stanley Ngala, has been ruled out for weeks. “It’s very unfortunate for us that injuries in our team are increasing by each match we play,” he said. “Last week we had, at least, six players out but now we have about 10 players who are nursing injuries. “We were hoping that other players like Wisdom Mutasa, Stanley Ngala, Carlton Munzabwa and Tendai Mukono will recover in time for the match, but they are far from getting better. “We want to make it clear to our fans and stakeholders that our injury problems will never be an excuse for us not to deliver good results. “We have a very big squad and it will be an opportunity, especially for the young players, to showcase their capabilities.” Masomere praised their opponents. “We know that we are facing a good team because on Monday they played well and managed to hold the current champions to a draw,”he said. “We know their confidence is high because of that result and we must be cautious and ready for a tough encounter.” Fixtures Tomorrow: -Yadah v TelOne (Rufaro) -Bulawayo Chiefs v ZPC Kariba (Luveve) -Ngezi Platinum v Chicken Inn (Baoba). Saturday: -Black Rhinos v CAPS United (Rufaro) -FC Platinum v Hwange (Mandava). Sunday: -Chapungu v Harare City (Mandava) Monday: -Dynamos v Herentals (Rufaro) -Manica Diamonds v Mushowani (Gibbo) -Highlanders v Triangle (B/F) 