The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu/Mkhululi Ncube, Showbiz Reporters AN explosive Rhumba Easter Saturday is in the offing as the crème dela crème in the genre clash at a free show at Nkosibusise Bottle Store in Bulawayo’s Trenance suburb. Martin “The Big Boss” Sibanda, stage performer par excellence Clement Magwaza, the eccentric Madlela Skhobokhobo and new kids on the block Dubia Masters will give Rhumba music lovers a rare Easter treat. The free show is organised by Bulawayo promoters UGwizi Umful’ Omkhulu. Entertainment will start at 2PM until late. Proprietor of Nkosibusise Bottle Store, Lindiwe Dube, said the show was an official opening of their establishment. “We want to promote the bar and what we are offering like braai and drinks. We started operating our bottle store some weeks ago and this show with Madlela, Dubia Masters, Martin and Ndolwane Super sounds and Magwaza is our official opening,” said Dube. She said the Rhumba artistes are loved by people hence they chose them to perform. Martin Sibanda promised a great performance for his fans. “I always promise my beloved fans, in their great numbers, a classic performance from Induna Namajongosi. I promise them a good performance they will remember for ages,” said Sibanda. He said sharing the stage with Dubia Masters, Madlela and Magwaza was always a great thing to look forward to. “Sharing the stage with these guys is a pleasure for me. It’s our duty to train the young ones on how to live in the music industry and from time to time bring them on board to test their survival skills. All these guys have worked with me before, Magwaza was my entertainer, Madlela was my MC, and Dubia was my guitar player,” said Sibanda. Dubia Masters front man Kholwani Tumelo said they have new songs to sample for Rhumba music lovers. “We’ve sizzling hot new music for people. We haven’t performed live in Bulawayo, but what we promise people is nothing but the best,” said Tumelo. Madlela Skhobokhobo, who has a brand new track, ‘Celebrate’ featuring Themba “Boyoyo” Mathe, was also upbeat about performing on Easter Saturday.