The Chronicle Grace Chingoma, Harare Bureau CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe is excited with his defence which has made sure that the former champions are the only team in the Castle Lager Premiership yet to concede a goal as well as a defeat. After three matches, the Green Machine’s defenders are yet to be breached having won twice against Manica Diamonds and Black Rhinos with similar margins of 2-0. Sandwiched between those wins was a goalless draw in the Battle of the Cities tie against Highlanders away at Barbourfields where a controversial Thabani Bamala refereeing decision denied them what could have been a genuine winner. Despite having played a game less than other top-flight teams following the postponement of their match against Chapungu last week, Chitembwe revealed that he is impressed with the way they have started the season especially the manner in which his defence have gone about their business. Veteran Method Mwanjali and Godwin Goriyati have partnered at the heart of the defence with Valentine Musarurwa operating on the right back and Valentine Ndaba at the left. In the weekend’s game Spencer Masunda, who was playing first division football last season replaced the injured Goriyati. Although he feels there are still some grey areas which need improvement, Chitembwe could not hide his delight after the weekend’s game. “I am very happy with the performance of the boys. “It’s good not to concede, I am sure we just need to continue working very hard, we still have a long way to go in terms of getting to where we want to get to. “There are still areas that I personally feel we still need to see an improvement. We still have certain players that I also feel we want to see an improvement but all the same so far so good, we are very happy those that are out there playing for the team are doing very well and now that Rooney (Ronald) Chitiyo is back, I am sure it gives us so many options going forward, so I think we are in a very good state at the moment,” said Chitembwe. The Caps United coach also spoke about his new star Blessing Sarupinda whose profile continues to grow with each passing match. “He is one special talent and if he continues growing the way he is growing, then I can assure you we have a real football player in the making. “Above all, what makes me very happy to work with this boy is his mental attitude. “The boy is grounded, he is one boy who is very coachable, one boy who is so keen on taking instructions, he was playing as a centre forward at Rhinos but with us we had to change that role and play him as a defensive midfield player but you can’t really tell whether he was an attacker before, but for him to execute those duties it is unbelievable it’s like he has been playing in that position for long but he has only played that position for two months,” said Chitembwe.