The Chronicle Tadious Manyepo, Harare Bureau Herentals 0 – 0 TelOne PREMIERSHIP debutants TelOne delivered a commendable show but their lack of top-flight experience was evident in this Castle Lager Premier Soccer League battle against Herentals at Rufaro yesterday. The Gweru team’s coach, Jairos Tapela, described the point they picked as a big boost for his side. “I think, given it’s our first game after getting promotion, the boys did very well. We created chances which we could have utilised and Herentals also had chances, that’s football,” he said. “We were more organised than them in terms of general play, in my assessment, but we couldn’t finish the chances that we created.’’ The gaffer, who was appointed a few days ago to replace Joel Luphahla, credited Joel Luphahla for laying up the foundation of the team. “We always want more but I think the way these guys are playing means there is room for improvement,’’ said Tapera. “The squad is not bad at all. Joel (Luphahla) is a good coach and he has been drilling this squad, I have confidence that he has chosen the best players. “Winning a point away from home is a confidence-booster but, on the other hand, we should have picked the maximum points as in modern football you can’t say I am away so I must lose and vice-versa.’’ Herentals coach, Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva, said it was a point picked rather than two dropped. “It’s a good start for us as a club. Taking home a point against a newly-promoted side is, in a way, not good enough but they played better than us in every respect. “But, although they were way better than us in terms of ball possession, they didn’t give us a lot of threat in defence. “We were a bit down, in terms of our normal play, but this is only the first game of the season, we are still working on some aspects of the game.” The visitors, powered by a huge band of travelling supporters, camped in the opponents’ half for the better part of the first stanza with veteran midfielder James Jam directing the pace of the game. But, a combination of David Mangesi and Mostaf Ponyera’s impotency and Herentals goalkeeper Simbarashe Gondo’s brilliance, made sure there was no breakthrough for the visiting team. Herentals face ZPC Kariba in their next fixture while TelOne play Bulawayo Chiefs. Teams Herentals: S. Gondo, B. Majarira, C. Mavhurume, B. Maunganidze (K. Bingala 53rd min) W. Chimbetu, G. Chinobva, I. Benza, T. Benza (J. Mutudza 56th min) , R. Hachiro (W. Kapumha 87th min) , P. Chota, B. Majarira TelOne: W. Huisi, M. Chikumire, T. Nyabinde, I. Zambezi, F. Bushiri (T. Sibanda 75th min) , F. Nkala, J. Jam, D. Mangesi (M. Moyo 75th min) , E. Mandiranga (B. Sibanda 75th min) , M. Ponyera