The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter SOLUSI University is working towards developing a Zimbabwe Diabetes Risk Score used in First World countries, a development that will help the country reduce prevalence of the disease as reports show that 60 percent of sufferers are not aware of their condition. The Diabetes Risk Score has been designed to be a screening tool for identifying high-risk subjects in the population and for increasing awareness of the modifiable risk factors and healthy lifestyle. Speaking during the 23rd graduation at Solusi yesterday, Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Minister Professor Amon Murwira, said it was important for universities to invest in research that benefits communities in accessing knowledge on health issues. A total of 639 students were conferred with degrees during the occasion. “Solusi University is developing a Zimbabwe Diabetes Risk Score to join nations in Europe and others that are using their own to reduce diabetes prevalence. Over 60 percent of all cases are undiagnosed and I understand that the only country in Africa that has a diabetes risk score is Nigeria as far as we know,” said Prof Murwira. He applauded the university for encouraging innovation and industrialisation in agriculture and textile design through various initiatives. “I am happy that Solusi has engaged in research that benefits the community directly that will ensure they access knowledge on prostate cancer,” he said. He said it was important for tertiary institutions to implement the Education 5.0 doctrine so they develop programs that lead to the production of goods and services. “In other words all degree, certificate and diploma programmes in our institutions should have minimum bodies of knowledge and skill that lead to the production of goods and services. I am also informed that Solusi has also introduced degrees which fall under STEM and all these initiatives do feed into the Vision 2030 which aspires Zimbabwe to become an upper middle income economy,” said Prof Murwira. He said according to the Education 5.0 doctrine, tertiary institutions should prioritise innovation and industrialisation. Solusi has seven faculties which include agriculture and extension, business administration, education, theology and religious studies, health profession and the faculty of graduate studies and research. – @thamamoe