The Chronicle Elita Chikwati, Harare Bureau President Mnangagwa has extended the term of the Commission of Inquiry into the sale of State Land in and around urban areas by nine months. He appointed the commission after illegal settlements had mushroomed in most urban areas, most of which were established from the illegal sale of State land by land barons. The commission started its work in February last year and the investigations were expected to last up to 12 months. President Mnangagwa issued a proclamation to extend the term of the Commission of inquiry into the sale of State land on March 21 and it was published in the supplement to the Zimbabwean Government Gazette of yesterday. Statutory Instrument 86 of 2019, proclamation 1 of 2019 states that in terms of section 2(1) of the Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 10; 07) it is provided that, the President may when he considers it advisable, by proclamation, appoint a Commission of Inquiry consisting of one or more commissioners. “Whereas the President may authorise the Commissioner or Commissioners or any quorum of them specified in the proclamation into any matter in which any inquiry would, in the opinion of the President be of public welfare; and whereas the former President issued a proclamation in SI 102 of 2017 establishing the Commission of Inquiry into the sale of the State land in and around urban areas since 2005 and whereas certain amendment to the period of extension of inquiry are necessary; “Now therefore under and by virtue of the powers vested in the President as afore said, I do hereby, by this proclamation amend the Proclamation published in SI 102 of 2017 by deletion in paragraph (d) of the words “with an option of an extension of a further three months” and substitution with the words “with an option of an extension of a further nine months’. “Given under my hand and the Public seal of Zimbabwe at Harare this twenty first day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand and nineteen,” read the gazette. A seven-member Commission of Inquiry into the sale of State land in and around urban areas appointed by former President Robert Mugabe in 2005 started its investigations in February last year. The Commission is expected to complete its work in September with an option of a further three months extension. The Commission is investigating and identifying all State land in and around urban areas that was acquired and allocated to the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing for urban development since 2005; investigate and ascertain the status of such land in terms of ownership, occupation and development and investigate methods of acquisition and/or allocation by current occupants and owners of such land. It is also expected to investigate and ascertain the actors involved in the allocations, occupation and use of such land; conduct visitations where necessary, summon witnesses, record proceedings, minute testimonies and document, consider and manage all information gathered in order to arrive at appropriate findings and recommendations to the President among other things.