The Chronicle Mkhululi Ncube, Chronicle Reporter BULAWAYO City Council (BCC) is set to build two schools in Cowdray Park suburb using the beer levy as well as levies collected from council schools. According to the latest report of the council’s health, finance and development committee, the local authority will use 30 percent of the collected funds per term to build the schools. Last year, BCC resolved to build two schools annually in a bid to reduce the schools backlog in the city. Council said it has identified two sites in Cowdray Park suburb but will prioritise one site at the moment. “The identified sites were stand numbers 20754 and 11892. Priority would be on stand number 20754 which had services for water and sewer connections. Site plans for the school had been drawn,” reads the report. The report said the councillor for ward 28 Cde Kidwell Mujuru will be tasked to convene a residents’ meeting to come up with a proposed name for the school. It said council has already sought government’s permission to build the schools but did not specify if the two schools will be primary or secondary schools. “An application to the parent ministry (Primary and Secondary Education) has been made as well. It was envisaged that casual workers would be engaged to construct the school in phases as funds become available. These would be under the direct supervision of the Council’s Building Section to maintain the desired standard,” reads the report. The funds will be released every term. “The current arrangement would entail the Financial Director releasing funds to the Health Housing and Community Service Department on a termly basis with other funds expected to come from the beer levy. There were currently 41 734 learners enrolled in council schools and if all were to pay the RTGS$12 council levy per term a total of RTGS$500 800 would be collected. This translated to RTGS$150 242.40 (30 percent) reserved for construction,” the report said. The shortage of schools in the city has seen some schools having up to three sittings a day to cater for the growing number of learners. According to a 2018 council report, Bulawayo has 29 council schools and the backlog stands at 25. – themkhust_ncube