The Chronicle Tendai Rupapa, Harare Bureau First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa yesterday joined an inter-denominational prayer group-Daughters of Virtue, in Harare’s Glen Norah B suburb in Harare, where she called on women to intercede for the nation so that peace, unity, harmony and development prevail. In her brief address to the hundreds of women who were being led by Prophetess Memory Matimbire, Amai Mnangagwa said women of Zimbabwe should be prayerful and emulate women of valour like the biblical Deborah, who stood in the gap for the nation of Israel when it was under siege. The First Lady led with some prayer points as she called out: “Nhasi ndauya madzimai kuti tikurudzirane kunamata tichiti simuka. Simuka mudzimai weZimbabwe,” she said. “I have come to encourage you all to continue being prayerful and pray for our nation. We are the Deborahs of today. There is power in prayer. Vana baba vanobata zvose zvose kudzivirira nyika yedu. Isuwo madzimai topfugama toshandisa mabvi kunamata. “As prayerful women, let us pray for our nation, our marriages, our families and the works of our hands.” After the sermon, the First Lady knelt down and joined the women in prayer. Amai Mnangagwa, who is the ambassador of Women and Children’s Health, and has been leading in the fight against cancer, promised to bring a mobile clinic to the mountain area so that women get screened for breast and cervical cancer. In an interview, Prophetess Matimbire said Amai Mnangagwa’s visit was not partisan. She said as Daughters of Virtue, they invited the First Lady to join them in prayer, praying for peace and unity in the country. “This is an important day to us as Daughters of Virtue and the nation at large. We have been praying for this day asking God to lead Amai – mother of the nation – to this place, so that we pray for our nation together. “We invited the First Lady here not for politics and Amai also emphasised that her visit was not partisan but to pray with us and pray for our nation Zimbabwe. To us (Daughters of Virtue), she is our Deborah, and she has arisen for the people of Zimbabwe. God will surely answer our prayers. As the mother of the nation, she has remembered her children hence her coming to the prayer mountain to pray with us. Her coming here is a blessing to our nation.” Pastor Evelyne Gaga thanked the First Lady for accepting their invitation and gracing the prayer session. “We want to thank the Almighty God for this day. Amai came to be with us and support the women in prayer. We prayed for our families, marriages and the nation and after this prayer, Zimbabwe will never be the same again,” she said. The inter-denominational group handed over goods to the First Lady which they donated to the victims of Cyclone Idai. Prophetess Matimbire founded the inter-denominational group in April last year. The weekly prayer sessions also popularly known as Ndadhinhiwa Prayer Group are held every Wednesday at the Prophetess Mountain in Glen Norah B.