The Chronicle Chronicle Reporter TSHOLOTSHO Rural District Council officer in charge of natural resources, Mr Simelisiwe Sibanda, has refuted reports that he was sent on forced leave, adding that allegations levelled against him were false. Mr Sibanda, who is facing allegations of abuse of office, said he was cleared of most of the allegations raised against him through a petition by the Tsholotsho Development Association. The association had petitioned the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing, Cde July Moyo, seeking his intervention in alleged massive maladministration and corruption being perpetrated at Tsholotsho Rural District Council by some of its officials working in cahoots with a top official in the ministry. “There is a lot that is going on at the council that will come out as time goes on but I wish to set the record straight that I was not sent on forced leave because we do not have such a provision. My time to go on leave had come and I was shocked to read in the newspaper that I was on forced leave and what boggles my mind is that no one ever bothered to get my side of the story,” he said. Mr Sibanda said he believed he was seen as a stumbling block to business dealings by some people with vested interests in Tsholotsho. “There was a case where there was a dispute between the council and one businessman. I was asked to head a committee looking into the matter as the head of Natural Resources and the decision taken did not go in the way of the businessman and I suspect he thought I was the one who made the decision but it was a committee decision and not made by one person. “That is where some of my problems are coming from resulting in some allegations and police coming to do investigations. What I know is that the issue at hand is that one of the companies that did business with the council belongs to my former wife, but I am not part of that company,” he said. Among other allegations, Mr Sibanda was accused of manipulating hunting permits and selling animal skins.