The Chronicle Ellen Chasokela, Harare Bureau The results of the comprehensive land audit will guide the redistribution of land, a Deputy Minister has said. Government is conducting a land audit to establish the extent of land utilisation and address the imbalances of the land reform programme, with a view to come up with ways of improving agricultural production in the land. Speaking at the Inaugural Agricultural Sector Survey Launch meeting in Harare last week, Lands, Agriculture, Water, Culture and Rural Resettlement Deputy Minister Vangelis Haritatos said Government’s thrust is on full, efficient and sustainable utilisation of allocated land for increased investment on land and production. “Government is working on making the 99 year lease available to all farmers to address the security of tenure, especially with respect to A2 farmers to enhance access to funding from financial institutions “Access to finance particularly by smallholders farmers, however remains a major impediment to agricultural performance. Through various interventions as entailed in the Transitional Stabilisation Programme, Government will continue to create a conducive environment for growth we open spaces for private sector investments. “Government has put in place a policy framework to assist farmers engage in contract farming to address the financing gaps and stimulate agricultural production. “The major mandate for the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate and Rural Resettlement is to provide technical, extension, advisory, regulations and administrative services to the agricultural sector to achieve food security and economic development and the Ministry is working hard to ensure that country produces sufficient food and feed for local and Export markets,’’ he said. Deputy Minister Haritatos emphasised the importance of the agricultural sector to economic development and growth. “Zimbabwe witnessed a significant decline in agricultural production since the turn of the new millennium, the country has potential to feed itself and even export as recent production statistics have shown. “In recent years, Zimbabwe has witnessed a rebound in the agricultural sector particularly in the areas of tobacco, reaching an all-time high production of 252 million kilograms in 2018 surpassing the previous record of 231 million kilograms achieved in 2000. Maize output reached 2, 1 million tonnes which saw the county rebuilding its National Strategic Grain Reserve. “The rebound in production of the major crops was due to good rainfall coupled with improved financing under the Command Agriculture Programme which improved input access and tillage services. This resulted in improvement in productivity by beneficiary farmers,’’ he said.