The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter MOTOR vehicle dealer, Autoworld Zimbabwe, yesterday launched a new Isuzu D-MAX vehicle in Bulawayo and targets to sell about 500 units by the end of the year. The vehicle was launched at the ongoing Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF). Speaking at the launch Autoworld business development manager, Mr Piet de Klerk said last year, a quarter of the bakkies sold in Zimbabwe were the Isuzu brand, thus increasing the brand’s market share from 18,5 percent in 2017 to 25 percent in 2018. “Double Cab bakkie sales more than doubled compared to the previous year — with a massive 112 percent increase in this country. “The Extended Cab, also known as the King Cab in Zimbabwe, followed suit resulting in Isuzu leading the market in this sub-segment too,” he said. In an interview after the launch Mr de Klerk said: “We have got a target to sell 500 units by the end of the year and we are hoping to see significant increases in the new vehicle market in the coming years so we can get back to levels that we have achieved in the past of selling about a thousand units per year.” Mr de Klerk noted that the new vehicle market was competitive as new brands were being released and his company would shrug off competition by offering the product range at competitive rates. “But our major focus is on after-sale side. We want to make sure that our clients are looked after not after purchasing the new vehicle but the vehicle’s whole lifetime. “We do offer service intervals of 15 000 kilometres and that separates us from some of our competitors as their service intervals are a lot lower,” he said. Leading by example, the dealership is dedicated to providing a unique, world-class automotive sales and service experience — retaining customers for life and ensuring that Isuzu is with their customers for the long run. In a statement, Autoworld Harare dealer principal, Ms Alison de Klerk said customers have confidence in Isuzu products and enjoyed its reliability and durability. “Isuzu offers great value for money compared to similar products in the market. The vehicles are reliable, durable and the brand name is one they can trust,” she said. Ms de Klerk also commended the performance of the Isuzu mu-X Isuzu’s new SUV contender, which was launched to the Zimbabwean market in September last year. “For the last few years we have been working on our after sales service, as well as our values as an organisation. “We still service vehicles that are out of warranty — some vehicles with high mileages like 700 000 kilometres still come back to us for servicing.” “It’s all about having a culture of honesty and integrity combined with a solid and reliable brand like Isuzu,” Ms de Klerk. — @okazunga