The Chronicle Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent THE National University of Science and Technology (Nust) has assisted the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) to train 90 police officers in community policing in a move aimed at improving relations with civilians. Speaking after the graduation of participants at Bethany Training Centre in Masvingo yesterday, officer commanding Masvingo, Commissioner Elias Mvereche hailed Nust for equipping police officers with relevant skills on how to work with communities in fighting crime. He said their interaction with Nust had enriched the cops to enable them to effectively engage communities in fighting crime in the province. “The interaction that the trainees had with Nust has assisted them with important skills in community policing. It will go a long way in improving police relationships with the community,” said Comm Mvereche. “I also thank Nust’s benevolence for initiating, coordinating and facilitating the four-day workshop meant to create a peaceful and harmonious environment for the citizenry.” Comm Mvereche underscored the significance of such training saying well informed officers provide better services for the people. He also challenged Nust to continue assisting the police service. “Furthermore these workshops are a testimony of the pleasant relations that ZRP enjoys with its stakeholders. I am reliably informed that in 2014, Mr Milton Ndlovu from Nust and his team trained our officers on conflict management and leadership. “To Nust, I challenge you to give more in line with the word of God in Proverbs 3 verse 27, which says: ‘Do not withhold good from those it is due, when it is in your power to do it,’” he said. Mr Ndlovu, Nust’s representative who was also facilitating and coordinating the training said the workshop was meant to improve the police force’s relationship with communities. “The training was designed to improve the relationship between the police and community. Community policing helps the community to have confidence in our police and the law enforcement officers to rekindle the lost coordination with members of the public, as we all know that the relations have not been good, in the past,” said Mr Ndlovu.—@walterbmswazie2