The Chronicle Mpumelelo Nyoni, Chronicle Reporter
A DYNAMOS fan who died while on her way to watch her team in Bulawayo on Saturday morning when a commuter omnibus she was travelling in was involved in an accident in Shangani will be buried in Gweru today. The commuter omnibus, which was carrying 17 Dynamos Gweru Chapter supporters, was involved in an accident about 67km from Gweru. Dynamos lost the match 2-0 to Chicken Inn FC. Chipo Nyikayaramba (39) of Mkoba died after being admitted to Gweru General Hospital. Speaking in a telephone interview, Nyikayaramba’s sister and family spokesperson, Sekai, said burial is set for today at Mutasa Cemetery. She described her late sister as a friendly and helpful person. “As a family we are deeply pained by the loss of Chipo. She was an outgoing person and was always willing to lend a hand to anyone. I feel like I have lost a pillar as both our parents are late.” Nyikayaramba leaves behind her husband, a teacher at Somphakathi Primary School in Lower Gweru, three children and two grandchildren. Nyikayaramba was a hairdresser at Bahduh Centre in the Gweru CBD. The patron of the Dynamos Supporters Bulawayo Chapter, Mr Sunungurai Bhiza, said fellow supporters were mourning with the family. “It is with a heavy heart that we receive the sad news of the passing on of one of our supporters. As Dynamos supporters, we are all in mourning and are trying to come to terms with the sad outcome of their journey”. Mr Bhiza said that they would be liaising with the Harare chapter as well as relatives of the deceased to offer financial and emotional support during the burial preparations and will also travel to Gweru for the burial. Last week, a Highlanders Football Club supporter coming from watching the Bosso and Caps United match at Barbourfields Stadium died on the spot while five other people were injured after the vehicles they were travelling in were involved in a head on collision along the Bulawayo-Gwanda Road. The accident involving a Toyota Regius travelling towards Gwanda and a Toyota Hilux travelling to Bulawayo occurred at about 9PM near Valley Tavern. Thandolwenkosi Tshuma was laid to rest on April 12 at his rural home at Esibomvu, Umzingwane district in Matabeleland South.