The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Business Reporter GOVERNMENT will soon unveil two key policies to drive the country’s industrialisation agenda in line with the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP), Industry and Commerce Minister, Mangaliso Ndlovu, said yesterday. Addressing captains of industry and stakeholders at the International Business Conference (IBC), a key feature of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF), Minister Ndlovu said modernisation and industrialisation were critical drivers of the economy hence the need for fresh policies that drive such a thrust. He said Government’s desire was to help strengthen the manufacturing sector through propagating appropriate policies and strategies that improve the business environment and set the sector on a sustainable growth path. “We have prioritised investment promotion, enhancement of critical value chain for increased production and improving general competitiveness as key in attaining our vision 2030. In this regard, my Ministry will soon launch the Zimbabwe National Industrial Development Policy (ZNIDP) 2019-2023,” said Minister Ndlovu. He said the policy will be a blueprint for industrialisation, which derives its soul from the vision to transform Zimbabwe into an upper middle income country by 2030. “The policy is aligned to the Transitional Stabilisation Policy (TSP), which prioritises the stimulation of economic growth and creation of employment among others. This policy will be launched together with the Local Content Policy as we believe it is a key enabler in facilitating the attainment of the ZNIDP goals,” said Minister Ndlovu. He said the conference theme “industrial growth as an anchor for achieving Vision 2030” resonates well with Governments endeavour and drive towards modernisation and industrialisation, which are key pillars for development. Minister Ndlovu paid tribute to the business community for its swift and generous support towards alleviating the suffering caused by Cyclone Idai, which hit mainly eastern parts of the country leaving a trail of destruction. He said significant damage to businesses was also witnessed. Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Minister, Dr Sithembiso Nyoni, also commended the ZITF for this year’s success story. “The growth of a number of participants as shown by the attendance this year is a clear testimony of the conferences’ benefit. We congratulate the ZITF on the successful hosting of the conference. You have done a very good job and we want to say well done to you,” said Dr Nyoni. — @AuxiliaK. 