The Chronicle Chronicle Reporters ZIMBABWEANS yesterday thronged various stadia in unity to commemorate the country’s 39th Independence celebrations. Thousands of people in Bulawayo converged at the ceremonial venue of the celebrations, White City Stadium. The event officially started shortly after 11AM after the arrival of service chiefs and the Minister of State for Bulawayo Provincial Affairs, Cde Judith Ncube. Soon after her arrival, Cde Ncube, who was the guest of honour, inspected the Guard of Honour mounted by members of the Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA), Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services (ZPCS) and the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) before she read the President’s speech. The colourful event was punctuated by captivating drills from the police while other members of the uniformed forces wowed the crowds with scintillating performances that included simulated battles, choral music and inspiring instrumentals that evoked the ethos of the special day. The Canine Unit of the ZRP was the darling of the multitudes through their entertaining drills as they displayed super intelligence that has always been harnessed by their handlers to catch criminals and sniff out dangerous drugs. The event was attended Zanu-PF Politburo members Cde Angeline Masuku, Absolom Sikhosana, Joshua Malinga, Industry and Commerce deputy Minister Cde Raj Modi and the ruling party’s MPs in Bulawayo and service chiefs among other senior Government officials. Bulawayo Town Clerk Mr Christopher Dube was also part of the proceedings. In Matabeleland North, proceedings started at 12 noon with singing of the national Anthem. The Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Cde Richard Moyo, inspected a parade mounted by uniformed forces comprising Zimbabwe National Army, Zimbabwe Republic Police, Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services and Zimbabwe Women’s Services which is made up of female uniformed forces. The parade made quick and slow marches past the parade square much to the enthusiasm of the hundreds of people who turned up for the celebrations at Somhlolo Stadium in Lupane. Cde Moyo read the President’s speech after leading the crowd in observing a minute of silence in honour of Lupane East Member of Parliament Cde Sithembile Gumbo who died on Monday. She will be buried at the Provincial shrine in Lupane tomorrow after being declared a provincial heroine. Entertainment during the proceedings was provided by the ZPCS band and pupils from Ndlovu and AMR primary schools as well as Chase Skuza. Present were service Chiefs, heads of government departments, Zanu-PF members and Chief Mabhikwa of Lupane. There were also district and ward celebrations across the province where the President’s speech was also read. In Beitbridge, scores of people from different political backgrounds gathered at Dulivhadzimo Stadium. Beitbridge district administrator, Mrs Kiliboni Ndou Mbedzi, led the proceedings and read the President’s speech. Dance groups, police cycle patrol unit, Zimbabwe Prison and Correctional Services inmates, Beitbridge municipality, drum majorettes and local soccer and netball teams added colour to the event. Among those who attended the celebrations were Senator Tambudzani Budagi Mohadi, Beitbridge East MP Cde Albert Nguluvhe, Beitbridge West MP Cde Ruth Maboyi, Zanu- PF Politburo member Ambassador Aaron Maboyi, Beitbridge Deputy Mayor Councillor Munyaradzi Chitsunge among other senior civil servants and politicians. Scores gathered at Pelandaba Stadium in Gwanda, the venue of the main celebrations in Matabeleland South Province. The event officially started just before 12PM after the arrival of service chiefs and the Minister State of Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs, Cde Abednico Ncube. Cde Ncube inspected the guard of honour mounted by the uniformed forces before he read the President’s speech. The forces kept the crowds entertained with brilliant marching skills. Local artiste, Zhezhingtons and drum majorettes from local schools also provided entertainment. The event was attended by MPs from the province and service chiefs among other senior Government officials. In the Midlands, thousands of people gathered at Mkoba Stadium which was the main venue for the independence festivities. People from Gweru and other districts in the province braved the chilly weather that characterised Gweru in the morning with the stadium filling up as early as 8AM. The commemorations officially started immediately after the arrival of the reviewing officer, the Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Cde Larry Mavima, just before 11AM. After inspecting the parade, Cde Mavima read the President’s speech. In the true spirit of celebration, a number of groups which included officers from Whawha Prison entertained the crowds with many expressing their joy and happiness in celebrating the country’s 39 years of freedom. Choral and dance groups, ZRP and Thornhill Airbase officers as well as poets from Gweru entertained the gathering. Also in attendance was the Mayor of Gweru Councillor Josiah Makombe of MDC-A and Zanu-PF Midlands province chairperson, Engineer Daniel Mackenzie Ncube. Clr Makombe said every Zimbabwean must cherish Independence which came after a protracted armed struggle. “This day is special to all of us and it doesn’t matter if you are MDC-A or Zanu-PF and that is why I am here representing the people of Gweru,” he said. A capacity crowd thronged Mucheke Stadium amid pomp and fanfare amid calls on residents to unite despite different political, social and religious persuasions. Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Ezra Chadzamira, inspected a guard of honour mounted by the uniformed forces. Minister Chadzamira was flanked by service chiefs who included 4 Infantry Brigade army commander, Brigadier General Exerbios Tshuma,  Officer Commanding ZRP Masvingo, Commissioner Elias Mvere and Officer Commanding ZPS Senior Assistant Commissioner Social Ndanga. Mutimurefu Prison inmates stole the show with well choreographed traditional dances. Masvingo provincial administrator, Mr Fungai Mbetsa, hailed those from the opposition for taking heed of his invitation to attend the celebrations. “We have members from across the political divide including our Mayor Councilor Collen Maboke from MDC Alliance meaning that we are united as Masvingo,” said Mr Mbetsa. Deputy Mayor Councillor Clr Wellington Mahwende said Independence was supposed to be enjoyed by all Zimbabweans as an appreciation of those who liberated the country.