The Chronicle Showbiz Reporter IDOLS Africa finalist Adiona Maboreke-Chidzonga has been unveiled as the host of Our Perfect Wedding ZimbabweOur Perfect Wedding Zimbabwe (OPWZ). The series, which will feature Zimbabwean couples, is set to premiere tonight on Zambezi Magic (DStv channel 162). MultiChoice Zimbabwe publicity and public relations manager Liz Dziva said the show that will premiere at 9.30PM is set to take Zimbabwean television content to new heights. “Our Perfect Wedding Zimbabwe is being produced by Zimbabwean production company Ngoda TV which was commissioned by Zambezi Magic to undertake the full series production. “The presenter is singer Adiona Chidzonga, a former Zimbabwean representative on M-Net’s Idols Africa show,” Dziva said. She said production of the show was well underway with the selected couples who applied to be considered for inclusion earlier in the year. After the premiere, Our Perfect Wedding Zimbabwe, which has 13 episodes, will air every Thursday. The first season will end on July 11, 2019 with couples being featured as they tick off their wish lists ahead of their marriage ceremonies. The aim will be to have a perfect wedding experience with the help of the programme organisers. Our Perfect Wedding is a concept from South Africa’s Mzansi Magic channel with Zambezi Magic having already undertaken a successful Zambian series before bringing the concept to Zimbabwe this year. Kenya has also enjoyed its own version on DStv’s Maisha Magic East. Local viewers are now waiting to see which 13 couples will be featured as well as the planning and execution of their weddings. “The show focuses on a mix of content features and human emotions to bring the highs and lows of the planning and the final joy of the couples after they marry,” Dziva said. She added that the OPWZ series will be the biggest local achievement on the Zambezi Magic channel to date, opening the door to even more local content in coming months and years. “Zambezi Magic was created to offer Zimbabwean film-makers a platform for ever-increasing amounts of local content. This is without doubt one of the most exciting Zimbabwean TV events to date and we have no doubt it will achieve huge success in Zimbabwe and in other territories in which Zambezi Magic is shown, such as Zambia. “We’re looking forward to showing viewers all the excitement and fun of weddings and to see how our fellow Zimbabweans live and spend their lives, adding to the sheer Zimbabwean excitement of this show.” Dziva’s enthusiasm was matched by that of Timothy Okwaro, M-Net’s director of East and Southern African channels, who said: “Across Africa, we love a good celebration and a wedding is a celebration of the best kind. “There’s nothing like watching a happy couple taking a walk down the aisle to pledge their love for one another in front of their loved ones. I’m particularly proud that this show will bring viewers across Southern Africa the Zimbabwean version of wedding celebrations. That’s how we, on Zambezi Magic, continue to tell our stories.”