The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter A SECOND half strike by Justin Kaunda gave Makomo maximum points against Southern Region Division One League championship contenders ZPC Hwange at Mpumalanga Stadium in Hwange yesterday. It was a good result for Makomo, who went into the game smarting from a 3-1 away defeat to Talen Vision in their first match of the season, as it brought them level on points with top sides that play tomorrow. Makomo coach Tapela Ngwenya was happy with the result, saying his team put up an improved show compared to their performance against Talen Vision in which they surrendered a 1-0 lead. “This is a good victory for us; we needed it to regain our confidence levels. We also needed this result so that we don’t stay far from the leading pack. We’ll keep working hard and try to build on this victory because it’s still a long way ahead. We will take each game as it comes and see where we are at the end of the season,” said Ngwenya. His ZPC Hwange counterpart Njabulo Dube said: “We lost in a balanced affair. We were punished for failing to convert our chances because we created more scoring opportunities and they made use of the chance that came their way in the dying stages. “Being our first game of the season, I’m sure we can read positives from this encounter and we just have to work on our finishing. Our goal is simple; we want the championship and we can’t be ruled out because of this minor setback.” The Southern Region Division One League games will be played throughout the Easter holidays, with CIWU whose game against ZPC Hwange was cancelled because of a waterlogged pitch last week, taking on newboys, Arenel Movers, at Crescent today. Arenel Movers are smarting from a 5-0 loss to former Premier Soccer League side, Bulawayo City, who play host to Victoria Falls side Mosi Rovers at Luveve Stadium tomorrow. Talen Vision, who are second on the table, face a stern test when they travel to Turk Mine for a game against Casmyn. Southern Region Division One results Yesterday: Makomo 1-0 ZPC Hwange Fixtures Today: CIWU v Arenel Movers (Crescent, 12PM) Tomorrow: Nengasha v Binga Pirates (Binga), Indlovu Iyanyathela v Mainline (Mzilikazi Barracks, 12PM), Casmyn v Talen Vision (Turk Mine), Toronto v Ajax Hotspurs (Luveve, 3PM), Bulawayo City v Mosi Rovers (Luveve, 12PM) Monday: ZPC Hwange v CIWU (Ingagula, 12PM), Bosso 90 v Moto Moto (Barbourfields, 12PM) — @ZililoR