The Chronicle Sharon Buwerimwe, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT has commended women organisations for positive outcomes in implementing the Beijing Action Plan, a programme that seeks to empower women. In 1995, the Fourth World Conference on Women adopted the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action for Equality, Development and Peace (BPfA). The declaration reaffirms the fundamental principle whereby the human rights of women and the girl child are an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights. Speaking at a consultative workshop for the Beijing +25 national report at a local hotel yesterday, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Ambassador Rudo Chitiga said women have achieved a lot on twelve critical areas in the past 25 years since the Beijing Action Plan was introduced. “As we go to the 25 years since 1995, we have achieved a lot and hope to have a report that is positive nationally and globally,” she said. “The Ministry established gender focal points within Government agencies highlighted in the 12 critical areas of concern for the Beijing Platform for Action to continue gathering information from the agencies as it relates to gender and to ensure that gender concerns are incorporated into all plans, programmes and policies,” she said. She said critical areas established are Women and poverty, Education and training of women, Health, Violence against women, Armed conflict, Economy, women in Power and Decision making, Institutional mechanisms for advancement                                                                                                    of women, Human rights, Media and Environment. Amb Chitiga said the United Nations secretary general Mr Antonio Guterres asked all countries to give feedback and recommendations on the action plan. She said the report is done in every five years, and this year they produced a positive outcome as many women and their organisations took part in the implementation of the action plan. Amb Chitiga urged women’s organisations in all provinces to work with different ministries which are responsible for the critical areas mentioned so as to produce more positive results in 2020. She said they will have further consultations on the action plan in Mashonaland East and Mashonaland Central provinces. However, she said some women in rural areas lack information on the Beijing Action Plan and there is need for creation of awareness. —@sharonbuwe