The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
CIVIL society and people from Matabeleland region have hailed the decision by the Government to exhume and rebury the remains of Gukurahundi victims, saying it was long overdue and would help the affected people find closure. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mrs Virginia Mabhiza on Tuesday announced that the Government will exhume and rebury victims of Gukurahundi, offer medical assistance and implement protection mechanisms for those affected. She said the Government will also facilitate the issuance of birth and death certificates of victims affected by Gukurahundi. She made the announcement during a follow up meeting that President Mnangagwa had in Bulawayo last month with NGOs and civil society groups known as the Matabeleland Collective. People from Matabeleland and representatives of various organisations welcomed the decision and urged the Government to honour its promises. Political analyst, Mr Methuseli Moyo said this was a huge and authentic demonstration of seriousness by the Government to heal and build a new Zimbabwe. “Indeed this is a new dispensation. Though it has come so late, it’s good it has arrived and the process to heal and integrate each other will make Zimbabwe the great country it ought to be. “It’s a necessary process to correct the wrongs of the past. Firstly, allowing people to talk about Gukurahundi freely has a curative effect. Remember some people were never allowed even to congregate as families to mourn, bury or even remember their loved ones for over 30 years,” said Mr Moyo. He said families could at least now talk about their experiences, bury their loved ones and find closure. Zimbabwe Christian Churches Alliance leader, Reverend Useni Sibanda, commended the Government’s decision saying affected people will get closure in the issue. “We’ve advocated for open discussion on Gukurahundi for a long time. We’re happy that the Government has responded because those who have been grieving will have closure. It’s important for people to know that healing is a process that takes time and what the Government has done now is a step in the right direction. “A number of line ministries have been mandated to work on these issues. We’ll continue engaging the Government to ensure that the pledges are fulfilled. The National Peace and Reconciliation Commission will also continue to work with the communities in ensuring that these issues are completely resolved,” said Rev Sibanda. He said the issuance of birth certificates is a relief to thousands of children and adults who don’t have the documents. Pastor Trevor Masuku of the Matabeleland Collective said it was a step in the right direction. “It’s a positive development to get such a commitment from the Government. We’ll wait for the implementation of what has been pledged.
“The Government has promised to be in touch with us as they progress. As Matabeleland Collective we have members on the ground who know the victims and can assist in the different exercises that the Government has pledged to undertake,” said Pastor Masuku. He said traditional leaders will also assist when Government embarks on the different programmes. Women of Zimbabwe Arise (Woza) leader, Ms Jenni Williams, also commended the Government for responding to calls from the people of Matabeleland. “We’re happy to have received a positive response from the Government regarding the Gukurahundi atrocities. We look forward to continued engagement with the Government. “For a long time Gukurahundi issues could not be discussed in public so we’ll engage affected communities and assure them that they are safe before the Government plays its role,” said Ms Williams. Mr Titus Moyo from Cowdray Park said the Government’s pledge will go a long way in healing the wounds of the affected people and help the country move forward. “This was long overdue and it’s encouraging. We thank the Government for finally taking the initiative to openly discuss this issue and map the way forward. We wish it had been done earlier but we appreciate that President Mnangagwa is taking this seriously. “Zimbabwe attained independence 39 years ago and every year we celebrate but there are some people who have not been able to celebrate because of what happened during the Gukurahundi disturbances,” said Mr Moyo. The Government also pledged to prioritise devolution and projects such as the Matabeleland Zambezi Water Project, which is expected to unlock economic value in the different regions. – @pamlashumba1