The Chronicle Zvamaida Murwira, Ellen Chasokela and Nesia Mhaka, Harare Bureau The African Union has donated US$100 000 towards assisting those affected by Cyclone Idai as the continental body commended the Government for working tirelessly in mobilising resources to cushion the survivors. The AU donation and commendation comes on the heels of Government having worked round the clock to assist victims of Cyclone Idai and also repair damaged infrastucture. Members of the Permanent Representatives Committee of the AU sub-committee on Refugees, Returnees and Displaced Persons that are in the country to assess the effects of the damage caused by Cyclone Idai, commended the Government. Addressing journalists in Harare, rapporteur of the sub-committee Mr Lamine Baag said the AU resolved to deploy a team to assess the situation in Zimbabwe, together with Malawi and Mozambique that were affected by Cyclone Idai. “As you know the reason why we are here is as a consequence of the Cyclone Idai which had a huge impact. More than two million have been affected and 700 people died in the region. At the level of the sub-committee we have discussed the issue in Addis Ababa and we resolved to make an assessment,” said Mr Baag. “As you know at the level of the Permanent Representative Committee, it is a subcommittee composed of all 55 member states. It is the first cyclone of this magnitude to hit the Southern Hemisphere and we decided to visit Zimbabwe, Malawi and Mozambique. As you know the magnitude of the impact is quite huge and no country can deal with it on its own. It is a moment where everybody should show solidarity and empathy. Zimbabwe is a member of the African Union, we can say it is a member of the AU family and we cannot sit in Addis Ababa and do nothing. We decided to come here to offer our solidarity and empathy.” Mr Baag said while making the assessment, the AU decided to donate US$100 000 to Zimbabwe and Malawi apiece and US$150 000 to Mozambique. “We know it is a small amount but it can help, it is better to do something than nothing. We also want to highlight the appreciation made to the affected people. We have also noted the determination by the Government in trying to do its best. It is something we need to highlight. This is an occasion that the international community provide to Zimbabwe and we call upon member states of the AU and regional organisation to offer assistance to the people of Zimbabwe,” said Mr Baag. Incoming chair of the Sub-Committee, Mrs Amuge Otengo Rebecca bemoaned the damage caused by the cyclone. “We saw for ourselves, the roads are cut off, there are no bridges, crops have been destroyed. What do we take home, we take home our slogan of African Union, that African solution for African challenges, this must come to reality now. Probably this has been a big challenge for us. We have been working very closely with your mission in Addis Ababa, actually they opened a book of condolences that have been signed by many. You have a big job to do as the media. I have been watching some of the news,” she said. Meanwhile, Government yesterday said it will disburse $5 million to assist schools to rebuild their infrastructure that was destroyed by Cyclone Idai. The money will be disbursed to key Government departments to aid the inter-agency response. In Manicaland, 51 schools were affected, while 10 schools were destroyed in Masvingo. Speaking at a function at Eaglesvale Junior School in Harare yesterday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Professor Paul Mavima said the schools will be refurbished as early as possible. “The Government has allocated $5 million for the reconstruction of schools and so far $4 million has been released,” he said. “President Mnangagwa has declared Cyclone Idai a state of emergency covering those affected areas and it is also an international appeal and some of our partners, including the United Nations family, have already donated some of the resources to the affected schools. “Our target is to say within the next three to four weeks we have to bring every school to functionality so that as the learners come back for the second term, they can go back into those schools.” Prof Mavima said two schools have requested to change location because their previous sites are no longer habitable. “There are probably one or two schools which are going to be relocated we have already received an application from one of the schools for land so that they can site it at a different place. “What we will do is that we will provide temporary facilities for that particular school and then the actual construction can start. “The Roman Catholic Church (Diocese of Mutare) has engaged Government for an alternative site for St Charles Lwanga Secondary School which was destroyed by Cyclone Idai, leaving the institution isolated with no direct access by road. “Diocese of Mutare education secretary, Mr Lawrence Chibvuri said the school authorities had decided that the site was not safe for the learners hence the decision to relocate to another site,” he said. Minister Mavima said the reconstruction and refurbishment of the affected schools should be finished by end of April. “I can assure the nation that come second term all those schools will be operational again so that learners do not continue to lose out on their education and those schools are going to open two weeks earlier than the other schools. “After this l am running to the affected areas, the President and other leaders of political parties will be visiting those schools just to have an appreciation of what has happened. “We lost quite a number of students, more than 100 now inclusive of those that have been confirmed dead,” he said.