The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter IN a quest to produce podium athletes, the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe (Naaz) has resolved to adopt standardisation of coaches, with unqualified coaches being banned from practicing. Naaz president Tendai Tagara said they are targeting primary and secondary school teachers, who are the foundation for athletes’ development. He said they will be holding two international courses to be conducted by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) from April 12-23. The Level 1 technical official, education and certification system course will run from April 12-19 and the Level 1 coach education and certification system will be held at White City Stadium in Bulawayo from April 12-23. The Level 1 technical official, education and certification system is for technical officials while the Level 1 coach education and certification system is for athletics coaches. “With the outstanding performance and well-oiled display of technical officiating at the joint Nash and Naph competition in Gweru from March 26-28 at Midlands Christian College, Naaz resolved at its first quarter meeting that with effect from July 1, 2019, no coach without international qualifications will be allowed to handle a team at national level. This also applies to those that handle learners at Nash and Naph. “We are giving them time so that those who want to comply can do so by attending an international course lined up for Bulawayo this week,” said Tagara. He said they were worried by lack of results from unqualified coaches. “The high competiveness shows that all qualified coaches are working. However, we were concerned with the presence of untrained coaches that do not understand that coaching is science based and needs to protect the physiological needs of the body at work, especially over working athletes. As I discuss with trained coaches, you would hear them talking of resting athletes that have picked injuries, but untrained coaches continue using them. This must come to an end,” said Tagara. He thanked Naph and Nash for providing athletes with a platform to showcase their talents. —  @ZililoR