The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter IN a revelation that is likely to send shockwaves in the athletics world, Zimbabwe has no certified athletics track in terms of the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) requirements. This means all times and records registered by athletes on any Zimbabwean track are null and void as they are not recognised by the IAAF neither can they be used as qualification for any international event. In an emailed response to Chronicle Sport inquiries, IAAF technical manager, competitions and events  said they previously had correspondence with the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe (Naaz) over White City Stadium about five years ago, but there has been no progress ever since. The National Sports Stadium was previously certified when the country played host to the 1995 All-Africa Games. The lanes were remarked in 2009 but IAAF standards were not followed. “We had some correspondence about five years ago about the Bulawayo track, but there has been no progress since. “There is no IAAF certified track in Zimbabwe,” said Matrahazi. He said in order for a track to be certified there are certain procedures that have to be met, including paying a certain amount to the international athletics body. “In the normal case, the certification process gets underway by sending the application form, including attachments (measurement report, etc). “We then issue an invoice after which the applicant then transfers the fee to IAAF who will then send a confirmation certificate and the track will be certified,” said Matrahazi. A renowned athletics coach in Bulawayo said it was shocking and sad that Naaz had failed to have the Zimbabwean track fields certified. “These guys are just busy gallivanting throughout the world using association funds instead of attending to such critical matters. This is really shocking that all our athletics tracks are not certified and as a nation we are doomed. “This is unacceptable; it’s a dereliction of duty and people must resign from their posts in shame,” said the coach, who requested anonymity. Naaz president, Tendai Tagara, was not reachable for comment yesterday.