The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
A combination of technical glitches due to an electrical fault and a two-hour delay almost dampened Vocal Ex’s five-year anniversary celebrations held at Word of Life Church in Bulawayo. The celebrations attracted gospel lovers from different denominations from all walks of life who packed the auditorium last Saturday to enjoy the group’s music. The celebrations were scheduled to start at 3PM but had to be delayed because there was no power to light up the stage. According to Vocal Ex director, Thembelani Mdlaziba, the stage lights were drawing too much power from the main switch. The audience which were getting impatient as they waited for the group to come on stage, started singing choruses from old and popular hymns. This provided a bit of respite but could not last long. Soon the crowd could not take it anymore. The situation was made worse when the MC leapt on stage and tried to crack jokes which instead infuriated the already frustrated crowd. Soon the people responded with a song of disapproval. This time it was not a gospel song but the popular Bosso song of disgruntlement, “Int’ oyenzayo siyayi zonda.” Luckily this was a Christian environment and the crowd did not turn violent despite the frustration. After almost two hours of waiting, the auditorium finally reverberated into song and dance as Vocal Ex members took to the stage. All seemed to have been forgotten and forgiven as the crowd danced to the gospel tunes led by Vocal Ex choir. Singers such as Sipho” Snowy” Ncube (who was a guest), Vocal Ex members Chelsea Mguni, Siza Mdlongwa and Nona Bismark were a joy to watch. Supporting acts such as Gweru-based Joyful Praise Choir and all female choir Tehhila Praise also held their own. Mdlaziba said he was stunned by the huge turnout. “The turnout was just amazing and it was a reflection of the general growth of Vocal Ex as a brand. We usually don’t want to refer to people as fans but they’re the Vocal Ex family which is fast growing,” said Mdlaziba.