The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Business Reporter THE Zimbabwe Republic Police scooped the 2019 Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) top exhibition display award while mobile network operator Econet Wireless and its subsidiaries also dominated the ladder for their outstanding displays. The ZRP’s stand was named the most outstanding and most popular with the public as visitors and exhibitors flocked to understand how the police work. For its outstanding work, ZRP went away with the President’s award and the ZITF gold medal. The designer of the stand, the ZRP press, public and international relations, was presented with a ZITF gold medal. Econet subsidiary Cassava Smartech Zimbabwe scooped top prize in the first time exhibitors while Econet Wireless won the most outstanding ICT exhibition, beating TelOne. Cassava Smartech’s stand in Hall 4 was one of the spacious, attractive and outstanding exhibitions at this year’s fair. Treger Products was also on the limelight as it scooped two prizes in the construction building and hardware exhibition as well as the furniture home improvement and interior décor. The outstanding exhibition in the small to medium enterprises went to the Home of Zanu-PF, which was competing with the department of war veterans and Alpha and Omega Dairies in the category. The golden jubilee trophy went to the Bulawayo City Council together with the ZITF gold medal for its civic participation. The Rural Electrification Agency scooped the best exhibition in the energy category while Zimparks went away with the best tourism and travel exhibition award. In the medical and health category, the top prize went to the Premier Services Medical Aid Society. The Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development beat its institutions the National University of Science and Technology and the University of Zimbabwe by scooping the best exhibition award in education and training. The best exhibition in agricultural and irrigation equipment went to National Foods Limited while Auto World walked away with the outstanding motor trade exhibition award. The best and most outstanding foreign display went to first time exhibitor, Belarus, which received a ZITF trophy and gold medal. The best exhibition award in the chemicals and pharmaceuticals and cosmetics went to BOC Gases while GMB took the best exhibition in the food group. The National Railways of Zimbabwe won the best mining and engineering award while the packaging, plastics, stationery and printing sector award went to Zimpost, which beat Fidelity Printers and Zimpapers. Traffic Safety Council of Zimbabwe went away with the PPC trophy and ZITF gold medal for business support and regulatory authority best exhibition while the clothing footwear and textile and accessories went to Paramount Exports. The Zimbabwe Defence Forces won the Bulawayo City Council shield and ZITF golf medal for the best exhibition in the non-Industrial, non commercial display. Davies Sibanda and Thabani Dhewa were this year’s ZITF golf winners. Under the Scholastica competitions organised by the Angel of Hope Foundation and Plan International, Mtshabezi High School scooped top prize in the quiz competition focusing on technology and innovation beating Sizane and Gifford High Schools respectively. Founders High School won the Scholastica high schools debate championship while Tafadzwa Makoni from Christian Brothers College scooped the Angel of Hope and ZITF trophies in the spelling competition. Guest of honour, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni presented the prizes. — @AuxiliaK