The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent The National Art Gallery of Zimbabwe in Bulawayo (NAGZ) has appointed Amagugu International Heritage Centre programmes manager Butholezwe Kgosi Nyathi as its new regional director. This follows the recent retirement of long serving director Voti Thebe. Announcing on their website, the NAGZ while spelling out his qualifications said Nyathi, commonly known as Butho, would start work next month. “We are pleased to introduce our new Regional Director Mr Butholezwe Kgosi Nyathi, effective 2 May 2019. Butholezwe is a creative entrepreneur and arts administrator based in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe. Butho is a holder of a Master of Science Degree in Development Studies (2013) from Nust and a Masters of Arts, Culture Policy and Management from City University of London (2019). “Until now, Butho works for Amagugu International Heritage Centre as Programs Manager and has over eight years of experience in community cultural heritage management and social movement building.” The statement added saying Butho believes in the power of the arts in building communities. “A 2016 Mandela Washington Fellow, Butho believes in the power of the arts in building social harmony in troubled societies as are found in Zimbabwe,” read the statement. Congratulatory messages flooded social media. The United Kingdom Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Melanie Robinson wished him all the best. “Absolutely delighted to hear this news. Kgosi Nyathi was a #Chevening student at @CityUniLondon from 2017-18. We met when I visited Bulawayo in Feb and was blown away with his commitment, energy and ideas. Wishing you all the best, Butho, as you take on this new role,” she tweeted. Nust American Space weighed in saying: “We have no doubt with your passion and drive for the arts, culture and heritage sectors in our country, you are the perfect person for the position and will take the Byo Gallery to greater heights. We look forward to more collaborative arts and cultural initiatives with the Byo Gallery.” Academic Charlton Tsodzo wished Butho well in his new endeavour. “Oh my goodness this is the best news I have heard today!!! My former masters’ student, who later became friend and colleague in the creative sector Butholezwe Kgosi Nyathi, is the incoming Director of Bulawayo Gallery!!!! Totally deserved.” Musician, Edith WeUtonga also sent a congratulatory message to Butho.