The Chronicle Manicaland Bureau MINISTER of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Monica Mutsvangwa has commended Zimpapers for outstanding coverage of Cyclone Idai as well as mobilising donations worth more than $25 000 from well-wishers through its print and radio platforms. Zimpapers handed over an assortment of goods that included food items, blankets, clothes, kitchen utensils and stationery to the national chairman for Inter-Ministerial Committee on Environment and Disaster Management Minister July Moyo at the Manica Post Building in Mutare. The handover was also witnessed by Manicaland Provincial Minister Dr Ellen Gwaradzimba, deputy Minister of Public Service Lovemore Matuke and Zimpapers board member Bishop Trevor Manhanga. Speaking at the event, Minister Mutsvangwa said the media had played a critical role in disseminating correct information before and after the cyclone. “I understand Diamond FM was speaking about the cyclone even before it hit on Thursday. This was good because there is a lot which is happening on social media but you are there to put the right narrative, continue with that good work,” she said. The Minister commended the mobilisation of goods which she said would go a long way in alleviating the problems being faced by the victims of the cyclone. “I am very humbled by what we have just seen and the efforts which have been put and it touches my heart because what happened in Chimanimani is heartbreaking,” she said. “The People of Zimbabwe from individuals, corporate companies, development partners, people from outside the country, civic societies have all come together to make sure that there is emergency relief to the victims,” she said. Dr Gwaradzimba said as a province, they draw comfort from the donations adding that Zimpapers had demonstrated a spirit of togetherness. “The task itself has been very hard in that we have been on the goal 24/7 to make sure that everyone who comes with donations is received. Because of the generosity exhibited by Zimbabwe and our friends from the region and internationally, they have provided a shoulder for me to lean on. At this juncture I would like to say thank you Zimpapers, thank you readers and listeners for your generosity,” she said. Minister July Moyo said the donated goods would be handed over to the Ministry of Social Welfare who would then oversee its distribution to the beneficiaries. He said the goods would also be sent to other provinces which were also affected by the cyclone. “I am happy that you have brought the goods here. We are doing it not just for Manicaland although it is the epicentre,” he said. Zimpapers Group chief executive Mr Pikirayi Deketeke said it was unfortunate that the disaster struck before Zimpapers had established a radio station in Chimanimani despite having been granted a licence a couple of months ago. “We were fighting for a licence to broadcast from Chimanimani and we were granted this by the Broadcasting Authority a couple of months ago. Unfortunately, we have not done so but we have already been on the ground. “Our people gave us reports on what was going on in Chimanimani long before even other rescue teams were there. We believe we can play a bigger role and we are playing our role. Our platforms have been able to mobilise quite significant support, some of it has been coming from all our stations in Bulawayo, Gweru, Harare and Herald House and most coming here at Manica Post. “We believe we have been able to rally support in terms of understanding what has hit our country so that we are all walking together,” he said. Mr Deketeke made assurance that as a corporate the company would continue to support the victims of cyclone Idai. Manica Post Editor Mr Hatred Zenenga also thanked the Government ministers for gracing the event and witnessing the handing over of the donated goods.