The Chronicle Innocent Ruwende, Harare Bureau DIPLOMATS accredited to Zimbabwe have urged the country to unite and work together to realise President Mnangagwa’s vision of making Zimbabwe an upper middle-income economy by 2030. The diplomats, who thronged the National Sports Stadium for the country’s 39th Independence celebrations reiterated their respective country’s commitment to support Zimbabwe in its rebuilding efforts. Botswana Ambassador to Zimbabwe Lt Gen (Rtd) Louis Matshwenyego Fisher said the rains, which fell throughout the proceedings were a good omen. “We wish Zimbabwe a bright future. We want it to develop. All people must come together and push forward the goal of development. What we need in this world is development for the people. The Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs talks about basic needs, shelter food and others,” he said. “We wish Zimbabwe well as you see these rains signify greater things to come.” The Dean of African Diplomats in Harare and Democratic Republic of Congo Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Mwawapanga Mwanananga said the rains which pounded the NSS were blessings from God. “People stayed here despite the rains they should do the same and remain united as one people to build it into a jewel that it is. My message to the opposition parties of this country is they should have people at heart. In the US democrats control California but after elections they go and run New York, Los Angeles, they go and deliver service to the people,” he said. “The opposition should start doing the same and wait until the next election. They should deliver services to the people of Harare, Mutare, Bulawayo and Victoria Falls the service that they deserve. They have to stop this nonsense of quarrelling all the time and pointing                                                                                  fingers.” “To build a country you need everybody whether you are in the opposition or not. Build Zimbabwe for the people of Zimbabwe.” UN ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Bishow Parajuli said his organisation was committed to assisting Zimbabwe in various areas. “Congratulations to Zimbabwe for celebrating 39 years of independence. We wish prosperity to all Zimbabweans,” he said. “We realise the efforts being taken by Government in terms of engagement, job creation and also inviting investors to the country embracing all the aspects of the sustainable development goals. Going forward the UN system is committed to assisting Zimbabwe in various areas of cooperation where we are heavily engaged.” On Cyclone Idai, he said UN was working with the international community in supporting the rebuilding, recovery and rescue efforts. He said Zimbabwe was also facing an imminent drought and over 5 million people are likely to be affected. “We need friends of Zimbabwe to join in and help Zimbabwe. We wish prosperity and success for Zimbabwe going forward and its aspiration to become a middle class economy by 2030.” Namibian Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Balbina Daes Piennar said the future of Zimbabwe was bright if there is unity. “Happy 39th independence Zimbabwe. This is truly a very progressive and resilient nation. The future can only be brighter especially under the leadership of a very progressive President and his entire administration,” she said. “Zimbabwe is a blessed nation you have all the resources and human capital. What we have experienced recently is that even the Cyclone Idai cannot hold back the nation. “All that is required is for the nation to continue standing together and rendering support to the First family and leadership.” Palestinian Ambassador to Zimbabwe Ms Taghrid Senouar said, “We wish Zimbabwe progress as it turns 39. The country has great potential, all that is needed is unity of purpose for it to prosper again.” Indonesian Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Juniarta Sastrawan said they were keen to bolster bilateral relations with Zimbabwe. “I wish to congratulate Zimbabwe on its Independence Day. We would like to cooperate with Zimbabwe in its endeavour to achieve a middle class economy by 2030.” Mozambique Ambassador to Zimbabwe Francisco Cigarro said, “We wish Zimbabwe well and ensuring that it realises its vision to achieve a middle class economy status by 2030. “We want to reaffirm our solidarity with the people of Zimbabwe especially on Cyclone Idai which affected us all. You have heard President Mnangagwa saying some of the Zimbabwean victims were found and buried in Mozambique.”