The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter Zanu-PF has urged Zimbabweans to re-dedicate themselves to nation building through peace and unity as the country celebrates Independence Day tomorrow. In a statement yesterday, Zanu-PF spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya Moyo chronicled how the country attained independence and emphasised the need for people to work hard for the development of the nation. “Since April 1980, Zimbabwe each year celebrates its birthday with national pride and unity of purpose. It’s a day attained through supreme sacrifice by thousands of sons and daughters of this great land after a long and protracted armed liberation struggle against colonialism and settlerism. “It was a struggle which took various formations since its inception in the 1890s by our forebearers, meandered through organised boycotts, demonstrations, use of petrol bombs, arson, culminating in the use of arms of war,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said thousands of people were murdered, hundreds maimed, property destroyed and livestock looted during the liberation struggle. “Having nationalist movements like the African National Congress (ANC), National Democratic Party (NDP), Zapu and Zanu successfully banned, the latter two decided to engage in full scale liberation war through their military wings, Zipra and Zanla, initially based in frontline states like Tanzania, Zambia, Botswana, Mozambique and Angola. In 1976 the two principal liberation movements (Zapu and Zanu) formed the Patriotic Front as a negotiating forum for talks with the British at Geneva, Malta and Lancaster House talks,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said this facilitated the formation of a unity Government by the two parties at independence progressively leading to one party, Zanu-PF under the Unity Accord of December 22, 1987. Cde Khaya Moyo said it is paramount to reflect on the significance of the nation’s birth. “This is a national day and not partisan by any definition. It’s a day for all the people of Zimbabwe to celebrate as one family. It’s historic in all manner. “For the record, this year’s independence celebration is the first after the harmonised elections held on July 30, 2018. The election was resoundingly won by the revolutionary party Zanu-PF. An election considered by local and international observers as the most peaceful, free, fair and credible elections,” he said. Cde Khaya Moyo said the Zanu-PF manifesto appealed and was accepted in both content and vision by the electorate. “Even in the calamity of Tropical Cyclone Idai, the spirit of unity and compassion among all our people across the country, from all walks of life and the solidarity extended by our friends beyond our borders in relief efforts is astounding. “While we mourn our dear departed, we must resolve to remain one family and respect the irreversibility of our hard won independence. One writer said “history never says goodbye”. Our independence will never say farewell. It’s permanent,” he said. Cde Khaya Moyo said Independence Day must therefore be celebrated with purpose as it give people the opportunity to reflect, engage in conversation and rededicate themselves to nation building through peace and unity. “President Mnangagwa has called for servant leadership at all levels. Let the mantra ‘Zimbabwe is open for business’ be seen in action for the prosperity of us all and the generation to come,” he said. – @pamelashumba1