The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter Jah Prayzah and the late legendary jazz musician, Oliver Mtukudzi, have been nominated for the South African Music Awards (Sama) where Black Coffee is topping the nominees list with five nods. Oliver Mtukudzi who was once nominated for the Samas in 2013 and 2017 has been nominated for the third time in the Rest Africa Artist category for his album Hany’ga which was released last year. His album is up against those of Diamond Platnumz, Mr Eazi, Nixon and Kommanda Obbs. Commenting on the nomination ahead of the awards ceremony that will be held at Sun City in South Africa on June 1, the late musician’s manager, Walter Wanyanya said: “This is amazing. How we wish he was around to share with the rest of us in celebrating yet another Samas nomination.” Wanyanya thanked all those who worked on the 10-track album saying their works are being acknowledged. “I want to thank all the musicians who gave their all on every song and to all the other men and women who contributed their time and skills leading to the production of this album now being recognised internationally. “Dr Oliver Mtukudzi never worked on any of his music with the hope of an accolade or accolades  but all his work was so potent that it can’t be ignored. “Thank you to the Samas for the nomination and congratulations to all those nominated alongside Dr Mtukudzi,” Wanyanya said. He, however, said he was not sure if they will attend the Samas. Also nominated through Mafikizolo is multi award-winning musician Jah Prayzah who has been nominated together with the SA afro-pop band for their Mazuva Akanaka music video. Mazuva Akanaka is on Mafikizolo’s 16-track album titled 20. Like Tuku, Jah Prayzah’s name is not new on the Samas nominee list as he was nominated in the Rest of Africa artiste category in 2017 where he together with Oliver Mtukudzi, Patoranking, Vee Mampeezy and Vuyo Khatsha walked away with the award. The internationally acclaimed DJ Black Coffee’s album Music is King has been nominated in the Album of the Year, Male Artiste of the Year and Best Dance Album categories. He also scored a double nomination in the Collaboration of the Year award, first for Drive featuring David Guetta and Delilah Montagu and second for Wish You Were Here featuring Asanda Lusaseni-Mvana. The Samas is this year celebrating 25 years.