The Chronicle Mthabisi Tshuma CLUB GOING UP ON A TUESDAY!! Chris Brown’s lyrics are a resemblance of what is expected today as Prince Kaybee will be performing at nightspot Cosmopolitan Night Club for his much anticipated album launch. With tomorrow being a public holiday, a full house show is inevitable as Kaybee will be making his debut performance in the City of Kings and Queens this year. Kaybee will be officially launching his album titled Re Mmino for the first time in the country which has the Banomoya, Gugulethu and Club Controlla hits. The producer cum DJ through event organiser Patrice Manyathela of the 93Group from his base in South Africa said he will leave a mark in the city and promised his fans a memorable show. “Bulawayo should come in their numbers as I’ll write history in the entertainment scene of the country by officially launching my album in Zimbabwe for the first time. “I promise fireworks at the event that will be satisfactory to my fans,” Kaybee said. Kaybee is expected to land in the country this morning and will hold a meet and greet session with fans at 2PM after a press briefing at Zarah lounge, sister club to event host Cosmopolitan. Manu Mahaso, Cosmopolitan Club manager said the show was drawing attention from people outside Bulawayo. “Prince Kaybee looks set to be a heavy gig, given the response from both local and satellite towns like Plumtree, Gwanda, Gweru, Zvishavane and Masvingo. We have gone there to market the gig and people are very interested,” said Manu. Cosmopolitan marketing consultant Ntando Ndlovu said preparations for the show are all set with VVIP tickets already sold out. “Our preparations are well on schedule and we are expecting Prince Kaybee in the morning as he will meet the press and fans at Zarah lounge in the afternoon before the show. “The reception has been good from the public with the VVIP tickets sold out. Our advance VIP tickets and ordinary tickets are still available at Cubanna and Zarah lounge going for R200 and R100 respectively,” Ndlovu said. Club owner Phathisani Nkomo said he will continue with his goals of bringing international acts to the city in a bid to spice up the entertainment scene of the country. —@mthabisi_mthire.