The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE International Organisation for Migration (IOM) has appealed for USD$7,2 million from the international community to enable the organisation to provide humanitarian assistance to 90 000 Zimbabweans who were affected by Cyclone Idai. In a report, IOM said it was keen to provide long term support for affected communities. The non-governmental organisations (NGOs) said the assistance will go towards shelter and non-food items, camp co-ordination and camp management, health, protection, displacement tracking, mental health and psychosocial support as well as early recovery. “In response to the crisis in Zimbabwe caused by Cyclone Idai, IOM is appealing to the international community for $7,2 million to provide multi-sectorial humanitarian assistance to 90 000 individuals. “The assistance includes Shelter and Food Items (NFI), Camp Co-ordination and Camp Management (CCCM), Health, Protection, Displacement Tracking, Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) and Early Recovery,” reads part of the IOM report. According to the report, $3,75 million of the $7,2 million will go towards shelter and non food items. “Shelter support is vital to the return and recovery of displaced populations. The Government reported that an estimated 18 000 households are in urgent need of shelter and NFI assistance. IOM will support targeted populations with acute needs who are not yet able to return home and have lost everything in the disaster. “This kit will include shelter items such as tarpaulins, ropes, tools, and NFIs including buckets, cooking sets, blankets and mosquito nets,” said IOM. It said $300 000 is expected to go towards camp co-ordination and camp management for 21 000 affected people. “IOM recognises that camps are the last resort and that for Zimbabwe, the collective centres and displacement sites currently hosting the cyclone affected populations in various locations are expected to be temporary in nature. “The Government estimates that 21 000 individuals were displaced due to the cyclone and an estimated 10 000 of these are living in displacement sites and temporary collective centres in Chimanimani schools, churches and hotels,” reads the report. It said $2 million will go towards early recovery while $700 000 will be directed to displacement tracking. For mental health and psycho-social support, the IOM has requested $250 000 and $200 000 for protection. The flooding caused by Tropical Cyclone Idai brought heavy rains and strong winds which left a trail of destruction in Manicaland and Masvingo provinces. – @pamelashumba1