The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter THE Meteorological Services Department (MSD) has predicted a wet Easter in some parts of the country with isolated showers and scattered thunderstorms expected. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the MSD said isolated wet weather is expected in some parts of the country over the weekend, with some areas expected to experience thunderstorms. “All Matabeleland Provinces, Bulawayo Metropolitan, Southern areas of Midlands, Masvingo and South of Manicaland Provinces are expected to be mostly sunny and warm with chances of isolated showers,” read the statement. “All Mashonaland Provinces, Northern districts of Midlands, Harare Metropolitan province as well as north of Manicaland should be cloudy and warm with showers which could be thundery. It will be mild at first, becoming warm by midday”. For holiday resorts, thunderstorms were predicted for Kariba and Victoria Falls with minimum temperatures of 24 and 20 degrees Celsius and maximum temperatures of 31 and 30 degrees Celsius respectively. In the southern region of the country, the past two weeks have been characterised by erratic weather with hot and cold temperatures and on and off thunderstorms scattered around Matabeleland. The MSD said the prevailing weather patterns being experienced in the country of hot and cold weather with isolated showers are expected as the country is transitioning into winter. Duty Forecaster Mr Batisayi Haanyadzisi told The Chronicle that the prevailing weather conditions of rains coming and going can be expected over the next few weeks until the beginning of May. “This is transitional weather. We had very little rainfall this rain season so as we transition to winter, the atmosphere is still heavy with moisture. “So we will have isolated showers and thunderstorms in some areas but mostly with insignificant rainfall of below 20mm, with few areas recording significant rains of over 20mm in 24 hours. “The rainy season itself is over, however, the public should know that seasons transition and do not come to a sudden halt as if someone has a switch and can bring in seasons like that. So we may be having these rains for some time. “They will be coming and going until the beginning and towards the end of next month. However, nothing can be ruled out with nature as there can be unexpected weather changes,” he said. Mr Haanyadzisi warned the public against being exposed when there are violent storms, as they risk injury and death from lightning. “Members of the public are advised to take cover as is the norm whenever there are thunderstorms. When the storm is violent, people must stay indoors and avoid sheltering under trees as they are exposing themselves to possible lightning strikes. “Some of these prevailing weather conditions that may seem strange to many are a result of the El Nino effect and climate change which is having an impact on weather patterns across the globe. Seasons are changing, gradually temperatures are changing and the normal regular climatic conditions are also changing with time,” he said. — @andile_tshuma.