The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter
SHEPCO Group chief executive officer Mr Shepherd Chawira has been elected president of the Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries (CZI) Matabeleland Chapter. He takes over from Mr Joseph Gunda from General Beltings who has been at the helm of the regional chapter for the past two years. Mr Chawira will be deputised by Mr Raymond Shonhiwa from Beitbridge Bulawayo Railway and Mrs Elector Mafunga from the National Railways of Zimbabwe. The trio will assume office on May 31 for a one-year term after which they may seek re-election for another term. The incoming regional executive members were elected at the CZI Matabeleland Chapter annual general meeting held in Bulawayo yesterday. In his address, Mr Chawira said the new executive was committed to ensuring vision 2030 was realised. “It is the chamber’s view that Government needs to do more to help business contribute effectively towards the realisation of Vision 2030. “As a chamber we will continue to engage Government both directly and through our national council on issues affecting businesses in the region,” he said. Mr Chawira said his executive will continue lobbying Government and other stakeholders to create an environment, which will enable business to thrive. “The urgent issue at hand is the implementation of the Special Economic Zones in order to drive the industrialisation agenda,” he said. Mr Chawira said his team will also continue lobbying Treasury to assist in availing foreign currency to the manufacturing sector and ensure proper functioning of the inter-bank forex market, which was introduced in February this year. The move was meant to improve foreign currency accessibility to businesses. However, concerns have been raised that the model is yet to fully bear fruits as companies are still struggling to access foreign currency through the platform. “We will also fight for the re-introduction and widening of SI 122 of 2017 to allow our industries to grow their capacity utilisation,” said Mr Chawira who acknowledged the role played by the outgoing leadership in reviving industry. Today another elective AGM will be convened in the Midlands while elections for Manicaland and Mashonaland regions will be held next week ahead of the CZI national AGM in July. — @okazunga.