The Chronicle Ellina Mhlanga, Sports Reporter VISITING Swiss handball coach, Rolf Haussener, believes the country can have strong and competitive teams if structures are put in place. Haussener is in the country for a training camp that is already underway at Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex. The four-day camp ends tomorrow. This is his second visit to the country to continue with the efforts to try and form a strong foundation for the development of national teams. He is working with the Under-18 boys team. The Zimbabwe Handball Federation have expressed their desire to qualify for 2024 Olympics. “Actually, up to now we were just training in tactical stuff and trying to teach them a bit of European handball, which is a very tactical thing, combining it with the African enthusiasm and speed and power. “If you want to make progress in handball, you have to think in the long-term…That’s why we said you give us five, six years, we want to try to have the best team possible for us. “We are also trying to bring some structures in the organisation with the secretary general and the coaches,’’ said Haussener. The visiting coach said they will conclude their programme tomorrow with a fitness test that will see them dropping some of the players and retain those they believe have the potential to meet their expectations. Haussener said their goal at the moment is to have a competitive team that can compete and produce results at regional competitions. They are also hoping by 2023 they will have a formidable team that can challenge for a place at the African Games. Yesterday’s session was graced by ambassador of Switzerland to Zimbabwe, Niculin Jäger. “I was amazed by the positive energy these young people have and how disciplined they are (in) training, the full energy…they have good team spirit, they are coming from all over the country. “The general-secretary briefed me about the project, what he is doing and what is his vision for handball in Zimbabwe. “And, now, I am going to follow-up with the discussion with him and also with Rolf to see how we can further engage to make our contribution to this wonderful project,” said Jäger.