The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Health Reporter MPILO Central Hospital and Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals are set to establish fertility clinics amid reports that 10 percent of couples in the country are struggling with sub fertility issues. The Merck Foundation, an international organisation from Germany that deals with health and technology, pledged to set up fertility clinics during the just-ended First Ladies Initiative Summit in Dubai. Members of the public are paying between US$2 000 and US$3 000 at private health institutions which are out of reach for a majority of the people. Bulawayo only has one private fertility clinic. The two hospitals are expected to provide the service free of charge. According to ZBC, the First Lady Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa convinced the Merck Foundation to set up fertility clinics at Parirenyatwa and Mpilo Hospitals. Director of family health in the Ministry of Health and Child Care Dr Bernard Madzima said the facilities would be set up by January next year and the training programme is expected to commence this year. “We are looking at Parirenyatwa and Mpilo Hospitals to get the fertility clinics and provide the services free of charge. The Merck Foundation has pledged to help Zimbabwe in setting up the necessary facilities and paying tuition for doctors to be trained,” he said. Mpilo clinical director Dr Solwayo Ngwenya said the development was welcome as it is likely to save sour marriages. “About 10 percent of our people suffer from sub fertility issues and the establishment of a public fertility clinic will address the problem. We are pleased that Mpilo Central Hospital was chosen to service the Southern region and many couples will benefit immensely from this development,” said Dr Ngwenya. He said the hospital was ready and awaiting the commencement of the project. Fertility problems most common in men include: low sperm count, poor sperm movement, misshaped sperm and blocked sperm ducts. In women, the most common problems for women’s fertility include: ovaries that don’t release eggs regularly, blocked fallopian tubes and problems in the cervix or uterus. Experts say all these problems can be medically treated and couples who seek help eventually conceive. —@thamamoe .