The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A 42-YEAR-OLD man from Gwanda was found dead near a local business centre two days after he went missing during a drinking spree. Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson Chief Inspector Philisani Ndebele said Samora Tshuma’s body was found on Friday last week by a passerby in an advanced stage of decomposition. He said two suspects – Fortune Sithole (24) and Frank Sithole (22) – had been arrested and were assisting police with investigations. Chief Insp Ndebele said Fortune and Frank are reported to have been seen pursuing Tshuma on the day he was last seen alive in Nsimbi Village, Guyu. “I can confirm that we are investigating a suspected murder case which occurred in Nsimbi Village. The body of Samora Tshuma was found in a bushy area about 10 metres from Nsimbi Business Centre by a villager who was looking for his goats. Dube’s body was in an advanced stage of decomposition. He had bruises on several parts of his body which suggests that he could have been attacked,” he said. “Two suspects have been arrested and they are assisting police with investigations. Tshuma was at Nsimbi Business Centre on the day that he was last seen alive and he reportedly had a misunderstanding with a group of men over an undisclosed issue. The two suspects Fortune and Frank were reportedly seen pursuing Tshuma.” Chief Insp Ndebele said investigations were underway and he appealed to members of the public with any information on the matter to visit any police station near them. He urged people to desist from resorting to violence when they have disputes but resolve matters amicably. A source close to investigations who preferred anonymity said Tshuma left his home on Wednesday afternoon and went to Nsimbi Business Centre leaving his 11-year-old son at home. He said when he did not return home, his son informed villagers who searched for Tshuma but failed to locate him on the following morning. The source said Tshuma was drinking at a bottle store at the business centre when a misunderstanding ensued between two groups of men over an undisclosed issue. —@DubeMatutu