The Chronicle Chronicle Reporters ALL is set for today’s Independence Celebrations being held under the theme: “Zimbabwe @39; Embracing Devolution for Vision 2030” with calls for Zimbabweans to commemorate the day in peace, love and unity. The main event will be at the National Sports Stadium in Harare where President Mnangagwa will address the gathering while Provincial Affairs Ministers will lead provincial celebrations. The Second Republic, under the stewardship of President Mnangagwa, has been rolling out freedoms in all spheres. In an interview yesterday, Bulawayo Minister for Provincial Affairs, Cde Judith Ncube called on Bulawayo residents to come in their numbers to celebrate the day at White City Stadium. “Independence day is for all Zimbabweans, we need to come together in our numbers to celebrate the day. Freedom fighters did not liberate one person but they liberated all of us and therefore those who value such sacrifices must join us so that we celebrate together,” said Cde Ncube. In Matabeleland North, Provincial Affairs Minister Richard Moyo said all is set for the celebrations to be held at Somhlolo Stadium in Lupane. He appealed to Members of Parliament, Senators, councillors, heads of government departments and individuals who have vehicles to assist to ferry the people to the venue. “All is set for tomorrow’s celebrations and the main event will be at Somhlolo Stadium while districts will also hold their own celebrations. Yesterday uniformed forces were doing rehearsals at the venue while the organising committee chaired by Provincial Administrator Ms Latiso Dlamini was making final touches. Matabeleland South Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Cde Abednico Ncube yesterday said all is set for the provincial independence celebrations to be held at Pelandaba Stadium in Gwanda. He urged citizens to turn up in large numbers to celebrate the historic day. “Independence Day is an important day for us as a nation as that is the day when we were freed from the yoke of colonialists. What makes this day special is that our independence was not handed to us on a silver platter but we had to fight for it. “That’s why it’s important for all of us to come together and celebrate this day as a nation. I would like to call on the old and young from all corners of the province to attend the celebrations nearest to them,” he said. In Masvingo, all roads lead to Mucheke Stadium today for the celebrations. The provincial administrator Mr Fungai Mbetsa said the stage had been set for the national event set to attract a bumper crowd. “We are done with the preparations and have mobilised more than $10 000 towards the event,” said Mr Mbetsa. In a recent interview with our sister paper the Sunday Mail, President Mnangagwa implored Zimbabweans to put aside political differences and unite in celebrating this year’s Independence Day, saying all opposition political leaders must be free and proud to partake in the Uhuru celebrations. He said the Independence Day celebrations were for Zimbabweans to exclusively reflect on moving the country forward. President Mnangagwa said this year’s Independence theme “Zimbabwe @39: Embracing Devolution for Vision 2030” embodies Government’s commitment to vigorously implement decentralisation of power to local communities. He said Zimbabwe was a constitutional democracy that respects the provisions of devolution. “We have put some money, which is around RTGS$310 million, which translates to a huge sum that is given to each province to deal with priority areas which they themselves as a province, as a locality, as local communities, think are priority in their area; hence, the Government thinks globally over the entire country and says we think this is a priority in Manicaland, this is priority in Mashonaland East, this is a priority in Mat North, but the people in Mat North themselves if given a budget, they have priorities different from those structured or crafted by central Government,” said President Mnangagwa. He called on Zimbabweans to remain united, cherish peace and defend the country’s sovereignty and independence. “Our people, our citizens and proud Zimbabweans of this country: One, let us remain united. Two, let us cherish our peace. Three, let us defend wherever we are, night and day, our sovereignty and our independence – it cannot be sacrificed or sold.