The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter THE African Development Bank (AfDB) has unveiled a US$100 million comprehensive relief fund to assist areas that were affected by Cyclone Idai in Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Malawi. After the devastating impact of Cyclone Idai and the loss of life in the three neighbouring countries, the regional bank has intervened with a “multi-pronged response plan” for the three countries. “African Development Bank announces US$100 million comprehensive relief, reconstruction and mitigation plan for Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe,” said the regional bank in a statement. “The bank will be providing emergency assistance to the affected countries and a medium-term plan to meet the reconstruction needs of the affected areas, including a climate risk insurance plan.” The AfDB said the deadly cyclone was one of the worst tropical cyclones on record to affect Africa and the Southern Hemisphere, adding that the “long-lived” storm caused disastrous damage in the three states, leaving more than 1000 people dead and hundreds more missing. AfDB has said its team was working to support the governments of the three countries using the bank’s convening power to assess needs, identify key reconstruction activities and mobilise resources from the international community, global philanthropic organisation and the general public. “The first phase of the plan consists of a special relief fund of $1, 7 million for Mozambique specifically for the immediate humanitarian relief effort in the worst affected areas,” AfDB said. “In the second phase, the bank will set up a response and reconstruction programme, committing up to $100 million for Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe to kick-start economic recovery and rehabilitation.” The bank’s president Dr Akinwumi Adesina was quoted in the statement saying the disaster has shown the importance of building climate-resilient economies on the African continent. “Our thoughts go to the people of Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi who have been so dramatically impacted by the cyclone. This natural disaster once more shows the importance of building climate-resilient economies in the African continent,” said Dr Adesina. Prior to the cyclone, the bank had announced plans to put together a long-term solution to climate risk in Southern Africa, which is subject to a continuous cycle of floods, droughts and cyclones making it one of the most vulnerable on the African continent. Meanwhile, the United States recently joined hands with Government in rebuilding the economy of the affected areas in Chimanimani by offering the Zimbabwean Government US$2, 5 million. – @queentauruszw