The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter THE United Nations (UN) has increased its humanitarian appeal for Zimbabwe from the initial US$234 million  to US$294 million to cater for Cyclone Idai relief efforts. During his visit to the country in February, UN Humanitarian Chief Mr Mark Lowcock launched a US$234 million international flash appeal for humanitarian assistance to Zimbabwe to complement Government’s efforts to ensure food security due to the drought. In an interview yesterday, the spokesperson for the UN Resident Co-ordinator, Mr Sirak Gebrehiwot, said due to the cyclone that hit the country, the humanitarian appeal has been revised upwards by US$60 million. “The launch of the revised humanitarian flash appeal convened by the UN Resident Co-ordinator brought together senior representatives from Government, ambassadors, members of the diplomatic corps and heads of development cooperation, UN heads of agencies, and non-government organisations,” he said. In a statement, UN Resident Coordinator, Mr Bishow Parajuli said the targeted number of vulnerable people now stands at 2,47 million up from 2,2 million. He said more funds need to be raised. Mr Parajuli called for an urgent response to the revised humanitarian flash appeal in order to meet various immediate needs. “We call upon partners to help in raising this money to cater for needs including food, water, shelter, health and nutrition, education, protection, and logistics as well as early recovery needs,” he said. Mr Parajuli said one of the main objectives of the Humanitarian Flash Appeal is to save lives and livelihoods by providing integrated humanitarian assistance and protection to people impacted by economic challenges and severe food insecurity. He said the revised appeal complements the Government’s ongoing interventions in the disaster. “The Flash Appeal will continue to target the Cyclone Idai victims, hardest-hit districts which were prioritised based on information and data available while a humanitarian cluster needs assessment is underway,” said Mr Parajuli. He said to date, the UN has provided over US$1,2 billion in various development projects as it works towards inclusive growth and sustainable development in the country. – @tamary98