The Chronicle Nduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor Zanu-PF has described the historic 60th edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair as a demonstration of confidence in the country and the reality of President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s “Zimbabwe is Open for Business” mantra. Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni will today officially open the international trade expo running under the theme, “Propagating Industrial Growth through Trade and Investment”. This year’s international trade showcase, the biggest in its 60 years of existence, recorded a high subscription of 532 direct local exhibitors and 16 countries participating. The figure compares favourably with 491 direct local exhibitors recorded the same time last year, showing growing positive business sentiment and a strong desire to increase trade. In a statement yesterday, the party’s secretary for information and publicity Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said the trade fair opens a new page for investment in the country. “The ruling revolutionary Zanu-PF party led by the visionary President ED Mnangagwa, whilst also exhibiting at the 60th Zimbabwe International Trade Fair, takes this opportunity to hail all exhibitors local, regional and international. “All are demonstrating the confidence and conviction that our President’s mantra ‘Zimbabwe is Open for Business’ is a reality for the world to see in the new dispensation. Such record showcasing opens a new page for investment in this tranquil and peace-loving nation,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said the success of the ZITF has put the country’s detractors to shame. “Those countries who have imposed illegal sanctions on Zimbabwe because of our land reform programme, must bow their heads in shame when witnessing the success of such an international trade fair,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He hailed President Museveni for the honour of presiding over the official launch of the five-day expo. “The honour bestowed on Zimbabwe by his Excellency President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda in officially opening this spectacular trade fair demonstrates the fraternal bond of friendship between our two countries and peoples. “As the Ugandan national motto aptly states ‘For God and my country’ so let it be forever,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. ZITF Company board chairperson, Ms Ruth Ncube said the targeted 2019 space was taken up 100 percent and the company availed additional space to accommodate the over flow. She said the space being made available for sale rose from a low of 47 612 square metres in 2016 to a high of 57 732 square metres this year. Ms Ncube pointed out that of the 532 direct local exhibitors, 16 percent were first timers displaying a wide range of products and services. These are drawn from among others; printing and packaging, tourism, education services and advocacy, media and advertising, and agriculture equipment. In terms of geographical mix, 55 percent of confirmed local exhibitors were from Harare, 25 percent from Bulawayo, 15 percent (other towns) and five percent from the international sector. Foreign nations participating at this year’s ZITF include Belarus, which will be participating at the trade showcase for the first time, the United States of America which is making a return after a three-year hiatus, Botswana, Ethiopia, Japan, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa and the United Arab Emirates among others.