The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent Rapper Cal_Vin, who is a father of two, says he has decided to venture into other businesses to augment his income from music in order to be able to fend for his family. From the beginning of the year, Cal_Vin has been busy selling vegetables through a company called Yadini Fresh. The company delivers fresh farm produce like tomatoes, onions and carrots to people’s doorsteps. Last year, the rapper hogged the limelight as he admitted to have sired two children, a boy and a girl, with two different mothers. The women were pregnant around the same time as the babies were born almost two months apart. To take care of his kids, Cal _Vin said he decided to venture into other businesses as the music business is not rewarding for Bulawayo artistes. “The music business in Bulawayo and the country as a whole is slow (not rewarding) for some of us. Bulawayo artistes don’t get booked and supported so we have to look for other streams of revenue. “Being a father I’ve realised that the effort I put into my music is eating most of my time which I could be using to do something which gives me money,” said Cal_Vin. Reflecting on the farming industry business, Cal_Vin said: “I get stuff from the farms and sell the vegetables to people at very affordable prices. It’s quite an interesting business because hanging out with farmers has opened my mind. “It has created enthusiasm and interest in the farming industry, something that has kept me out of showbiz circles.” Cal _Vin is as a result no longer giving his record label Kontrol Tribe much attention hence artistes have left the label. The artistes such as Mawiza and GTi who were signed under the label were now working on their solo projects. “There are no more artistes at Kontrol Tribe because everyone is doing their own thing. This is because of my divided attention. I no longer pay attention to everyone as I used to,” said Cal_Vin. He, however, said he was not hanging up his mic as he was planning to return to the studio soon to work on music for this year. Recently, he released a love song titled Khatshana that features vocalist Tiffcake from Kwekwe.