The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga/Pamela Shumba, Business Reporters INTENSE business-to-business engagements were the order of the day yesterday as the 60th edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) opened in Bulawayo with exhibitors seeking to maximise on the first day. A total of 532 direct local exhibitors and 16 foreign nations are participating in what has been described as a historic trade fair judging by the overwhelming subscription, which saw bookings exceed 100 percent, confirming that indeed “Zimbabwe is open for business.” Industry and Commerce Minister Mangaliso Ndlovu and his deputy, Raj Modi, conducted a tour of the stands in the afternoon during which they exchanged notes with exhibitors who are drawn from a cross-section of industry, commerce, academia, governance and advisory services to mention a few. Exhibitors who spoke to The Chronicle expressed high hopes that Zimbabwe’s future was bright with the economy on the mend despite some temporary setbacks. After the tour the ministers also expressed optimism that the overwhelming participation would help propel the country to greater heights. “We are expecting a very successful ZITF as we are celebrating 60 years in style. We are breaking records in terms of numbers of exhibitors,” said Minister Ndlovu. “We have had to put up a tent to accommodate more exhibitors who are coming to exhibit and market their products. We have no doubt as Ministry of Industry and Commerce that the business community is responding positively to the Government position that Zimbabwe is open for business.” Minister Ndlovu and Deputy Minister Modi visited stands in Hall 4 among them the ZimTrade one and companies that were exhibiting under the ZimTrade banner, and foreign stands such as that of Belarus, which is exhibiting for the first time. “We have seen most of them making final touches. I am happy with the sectoral representation with different sectors from manufacturing, agriculture, mining, tourism and a number of Government institutions as well,” said Minister Ndlovu. “And we have international exhibitors. I am told there are 16 countries and I didn’t manage to go through all of them. I visited three today. So we are looking forward to a very successful and fruitful Zimbabwe International Trade Fair.” The minister said the high turnout of exhibitors was a reflection that the business community was confident about Zimbabwe’s economic outlook. “Perhaps also they quite understand the ‘austerity for prosperity’ programme that we are going through. Some of the challenges we are going through are necessary for us to get out of these challenges. “And when you see the business community taking a lead in this way, it gives us confidence that at least we are walking this together, and when we continue working like this together we should be able to come up with sustainable solutions. “So, this whole increase (in the number of this year’s ZITF exhibitors) is an indication that business has confidence about the economic outlook of the country,” he said. Zimbabwe Consolidated Diamond Company (ZCDC) spokesperson, Mr Sugar Chagonda said they expected to use the ZITF platform to attract more investment in line with Vision 2030. “Our coming to ZITF is indeed integral especially in terms of our mandate, where we’re producing diamonds for the benefit of the country. “We’re looking forward to attracting a lot of investment because we have big plans in line with Vision 2030 and we certainly want to ensure that we become a world class diamond producer,” he said. “We have a number of projects that we’re planning to roll out but we can’t do it alone. “We’re certainly going to partner with a number of local and international companies as part of our mandate”. Several first-time exhibitors also expressed excitement to have the opportunity for market exposure and hoped to clinch lucrative trade deals. The exhibition space taken at this year’s ZITF rose from 47 612 square metres in 2016 to 57 732 square metres this year. For the first time in the history of the trade showcase, the exhibition space has all been sold out. This year’s trade fair, which is premised on promoting investment and trade is running under the theme, “Propagating Industrial Growth through Trade and Investment.” It would be officially opened by Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni on Friday.