The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo in Umguza District
SENATOR Sikhanyisiwe Mpofu has bemoaned the lack of appreciation of women in sport despite them dominating the world population. Speaking at the Women and Girls in Sports celebrations at Mathonisa Business Centre in Umguza district yesterday, Mpofu said it was sad that while women and girls account for more that half of the world’s population, the culture of sport has made their participation in sport and physical activity less than that of men and boys. “It is this culture we must confront and defeat for us to balance for the better,” said Mpofu in a speech read on her behalf by Bubi/Umguza MP under the women’s quota, Elizabeth Masuku. The festival was held under the theme, “Balance for better, building confidence in women and girls through sport and recreation”. Mpofu said family values are learnt by children from within a traditional family unit anchored by a dignified woman, adding that it was heartening to note that through sport and recreation activities, women can learn the various virtues of ubuntu such as dignity, trust, sharing, unselfishness, caring and respect for others. “We all are aware that the National Sport and Recreation Policy makes mention of the inclusion of women and those with disabilities. However, this has to be reinforced by specific action programmes. It is encouraging that this festival is one such activity as it seeks to empower women and girls through sport and recreation,” Mpofu said. The festival was graced by Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs, Minister Richard Moyo, who said it was important to appreciate that the agenda of sport was bigger than possibly imagined. “The festival comes at a time when His Excellency President Mnangagwa has directed all of us to put our energies towards attaining the goals and aspirations of Vision 2030 and the role played by sport in achieving this goal cannot be undermined. Let us all embrace this festival and initiative in response to the need to position sport and recreation as an effective tool that contributes towards the realisation of the national goals since sport ensures healthy lives, promotes the well being of all ages and contributes to social empowerment,” said Minister Moyo. The festivities saw various women’s teams competing in athletics, netball, wellness and fitness as well as football.