The Chronicle Farirai Machivenyika, Harare Bureau Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni jetted into the country yesterday and is today expected to officially open the ongoing 60th edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) in Bulawayo. Last night, President Mnangagwa held a dinner reception for the visiting Head of State at State House in Harare. The ZITF began on Tuesday and is being held under the theme, “Propagating Industrial Growth through Trade and Investment” and will be officially opened around mid day. The Ugandan leader was met at the Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport by President Mnangagwa, senior Government officials, service chiefs and several African diplomats. President Museveni was greeted with a 21-gun salute and inspected a Guard of Honour mounted by members of the Presidential Guard. His presence at the annual show adds to the international flair where 16 countries, including Belarus, Botswana, Ethiopia, Japan, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, United States of America and Zambia, are participating. The United States of America has also returned to the ZITF after a three-year absence, a development which observers say is an indicator of Washington’s commitment to re-engage with Zimbabwe. Under the new political order led by President Mnangagwa, the country has been on a re-engagement drive with the international community with a view to attract the much-needed foreign direct investment from across the globe. Some of the major highlights of this year’s trade fair include the ZITF International Business Conference that was held on the Wednesday and the Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries (CZI)/ ZITF Original Equipment Manufacturers’ Forum held yesterday. For the first time in the history of the trade fair, all the available exhibitor space has been sold out and special arrangements to accommodate more exhibitors have been made through pitching up tents. Today and tomorrow are public days.