The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter A BULLISH Zimbabwe National Army long distance runner Andrew Chimbidzikai is confident of defending his PPC Matopos Ultra-Marathon this morning. Chimbidzikai of ZNA-sponsored Black Rhinos Athletics Club won last year’s tightly contested PPC Matopos 33 Miler Ultra Marathon men’s race as he summoned all his energy in the final stretch to finish five seconds ahead of Nkosiyazi Sibanda of Blanket Mine. Chimbikidzai completed the race in three hours 12 minutes 23 seconds, beating Lynno Muchena’s 2017 record of three hours 13 minutes 28 seconds while Sibanda reached the finish line in three hours 12 minutes 28 seconds. Chimbidzikai yesterday declared himself “super fit” for the race, adding that he has gone through “rigorous” training in the Eastern Highlands. “I want to retain my title and nothing will stop me because I’ve been training hard for this race. Losing is part of the race but I don’t see myself losing this one. I want to carry on from last year. “I went through a demanding training regime in Nyanga and if you are familiar with the terrain there you’ll appreciate that the one for the PPC race is easy,” said Chimbidzikai. The defending PPC Matopos 33 Miler Ultra Marathon men’s champion should expect stiff competition from Marko Mambo, who finished last year’s race fourth. Mambo used the Matopos race as part of his preparations for South Africa’s premier ultra-marathon, the Comdrades where he finished in a credible fifth place. Besides Mambo, some of the top athletes who have reportedly registered for today’s race include Sibanda, a six-time winner of the Econet Victoria Falls marathon, Muchena, Tendai Zimuto and Wellington Varevi. In the women’s race, defending champion Chiedza Chokore will face a stern challenge from her sister Lizzy, Bertha Chikanga and Rudo Mhonderwa. Organisers of the tournament are expecting at least 3,000 athletes to compete in the main race, the 53km ultra-marathon, half-marathon (21.1km), as well as the 10km and 5km Fun Runs. Last year a record 2,500 athletes took part in the event, with the bulk of participants competing in the 10km and 5km Fun Runs. “Everything is set for the race and by lunch time (yesterday), we had 2,600 people who had registered. The race keeps growing and we are looking forward to a great day of athletics,” said Manuel Mpofu, Bulawayo Athletics Board chairman. — @ZililoR