The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter Talen Vision 3-1 Makomo A BRACE by Mlungisi Ncube and a late strike by Adonis Nyoni powered ambitious Talen Vision to maximum points in the opening match of the Southern region Division One Soccer League at Luveve Stadium yesterday. Vision, coached by former national team assistant gaffer, Mkhuphali Masuku, who also had coaching stints at Caps United, Highlanders and Harare City, had to come from a goal down to avoid a home defeat. Ex-Hwange and Bulawayo City midfielder Justine Kaunda, who had a brilliant afternoon, fired Makomo into the lead in the 17th minute with a well taken shot from the edge of the box, beating a diving goalkeeper London Zulu. The visitors, whose game plan appeared to have been to sit back and then try to catch Vision on the break, were punished for wasting a glorious 39th minute attack initiated by Maconalo Mavuto whose pass across the face of goal found no takers with Kaunda and Tatenda Ushe failing to stab the ball into an empty net. Vision maintained their patience and at the stroke of halftime, Ncube struck, getting to the end of a quick break that involved defender Douglas Sibanda and winger Brian Muza who sent in a perfect delivery into the box. Ncube completed his brace on the 47th minute, taping in a perfect pass by veteran, Heritein Masuku, from the left. Vision put the game to bed courtesy of an 83rd minute goal by Nyoni who benefitted from a perfect cross from the left by Mthulisi Sibanda. “What was important about the first game was to collect maximum points just to kick off our campaign on a right track. I’m happy that despite being a goal down we showed character and managed to come from a goal down to win this encounter,” said Masuku. Makomo coach, Tapela Ngwenya said: “I think the slippery field affected us. We wanted to get some rhythm but failed to do so and it’s disappointing to surrender a lead. I think the better team of the day won.” Meanwhile, three games pencilled for Hwange and Victoria Falls today have been cancelled. Zifa Southern Region board member Mehluli Thebe said the ZPC Hwange and CIWU encounter was called off because of a waterlogged pitch following heavy rains that hit the coalmining town. The games between Moto Moto and Casmyn as well as the Mosi Rovers and Nengasha have been cancelled because Moto Moto and Nengasha are yet to pay their affiliation fees. “Moto Moto owes from last season and one of the resolutions made by clubs at the annual general meeting was that teams must clear their debts and pay affiliation fees before playing. If the teams which owe pay before missing three games, the fixtures will be rescheduled but if they don’t they will be automatically kicked out of the league,” said Thebe. Fixtures Today: Arenel Movers v Bulawayo City (Luveve), Moto Moto v Casmyn (Cancelled), Binga Pirates v Toronto (Binga), Main Line v Bosso 90 (Plumtree), ZPC Hwange v CIWU (Hwange), Ajax Hotspurs v Indlovu Iyanyathela (Raylton), Mosi Rovers v Nengasha (Cancelled) — @ZililoR