The Chronicle Tendai Mugabe, Harare Bureau Egypt has pledged to partner Zimbabwe in the field of infrastructural development as Harare intensifies efforts to attract Foreign Direct Investment in line with Vision 2030. The development of infrastructure such as roads is also key in the Transitional Stabilisation Programme which says an efficient and adequate transport system is critical for the development of the country, providing access to markets including reducing regional disparities. It further says the road, rail and air sub-sectors are critical in rapid industrialisation and agricultural advancement as they facilitate trade and movement of goods and people, hence, the need to rehabilitate and upgrade the current stock of assets. Last week Egyptian Minister of Ground Transport and Bridges for Egypt, Lieutenant General Kamel Abd elhaly Elwazeer expressed Cairo’s interest after meeting his Zimbabwean counterpart Minister Joel Biggie Matiza. Minister Matiza was in Cairo where he was attending the second ordinary session of the African Union Specialised Technical Committee on Transport, Transcontinental and Inter-Regional Infrastructure, Energy and Tourism. On the sidelines of that summit, Minister Matiza paid a courtesy call on his Egyptian counterpart to present to him bountiful business opportunities in Zimbabwe. Speaking to our Harare Bureau on his return from Cairo, Minister Matiza said the Egyptians were keen to invest in the country. “My Egyptian counterpart is eager to come here to participate in projects to do with infrastructure development,” said Minister Matiza. “This was after I explained to him the thrust of the new dispensation in Zimbabwe under the leadership of President Mnangagwa and that our country is open for business. I also highlighted to him what Government has done a lot in terms of ensuring ease of doing business and that if companies come to invest in Zimbabwe they are no longer required to wait for long processing paperwork. “In this regard, they expressed interest in light rail among other projects. He said he will bring with him to Zimbabwe on his visit some Egyptian companies involved in transport and infrastructural development to explore available investment opportunities.” Minister Matiza said in response, Lieut General Elwazeer pledged to support his Zimbabwe and establish co-operation between the countries to expedite the sharing of best practices in infrastructure development. Egypt is currently undertaking mega construction works in the New Cairo city which Minister Matiza visited and witnessed massive construction of six- lane carriage road, ring roads and bridges. Minister Matiza said he learnt from Lieut General Elwazeer that their ministry had a consultancy firm involved in the planning and execution of road projects, bridges and tunnel construction. With regards to the Specialised Technical Committee on Transport, Transcontinental and Inter-Regional Infrastructure, Energy and Tourism meeting, Minister Matiza said it was resolved to urge all remaining African member states to join the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) and to ratify the African Road Safety Charter and the Revised African Maritime Charter. He said a call was made on the African Development Bank (ADB) to continue providing support and mobilise more financial resources for priority intercontinental transport programmes such as the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) and implementation of the African Plan of Action for Road Safety. The meeting was attended by several Ministers in charge of transport and infrastructural development on the continent.