The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter THE Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre (ZIEC) increased capacity utilisation to 54 percent last year  compared to 12 percent in 2016. In her speech during the International Business Conference (IBC) at the ongoing Zimbabwe International Trade Fair in Bulawayo yesterday, Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) Company board chairperson, Ms Ruth Ncube, attributed the increase in capacity utilisation to the exhibition centre’s adaptability to a variety of activities. “The Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre has been performing well in terms of its capacity utilisation. In the period 2016 to 2018, ZIEC has recorded exponential growth from a low of 12 percent in 2016 to a high of 54 percent at the close of 2018. “Consistent with our strategic plan, this 17-hectare exhibition centre just like Zimbabwe, is open for business all year. Owned and managed by the ZITF Company, ZIEC is adaptable to a variety of uses including exhibitions, private corporate, sporting and networking events,” she said. Ms Ncube said ZIEC was presently seized with the refurbishment of its existing conference facilities. “Additionally the planning and construction of hotel and conference facilities is fully on track. I wish to report that after the promulgation of the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, we are working very closely with the Procurement Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe (Praz) to confirm the appropriateness of the process that was taken in engaging transaction advisor before we proceed to the next stage of engaging the financiers,” she said. Given the existing accommodation challenges as well as shortage of conference facilities in Bulawayo, the trade fair company has resolved to build a hotel and conference centre. Commenting on this year’s trade fair, Ms Ncube said the number of exhibitors have surpassed last year’s. “And even before consolidating the 2019 statistics, preliminary figures show that we have surpassed last year’s closing total of 753 exhibitors. We project to close with more than 850 exhibitors, international representation is equally encouraging with 16 countries participating,” she said. “Space occupancy has been steadily rising, in fact our targeted 2019 space available for sale was taken up 100 percent and we had to avail five percent additional space to accommodate this overflow. We also observed an                                                                                                                upsurge in business visitor figures since 2017 when we took a deliberate stance to refocus the exhibition back to industry and commerce.” Ms Ncube said the exhibition, which is running under the theme: “Propagating Industrial Growth Through Trade and Investment,” had high quality and innovative displays in all the sectors that are being showcased. The sectors include manufacturing, mining, agriculture, tourism, and information communication technology. President Mnangagwa’s Government has set a target of transforming the economy into an upper middle income economy by 2030. Ms Ncube said the IBC provides a platform for industrialists, business leaders and policy makers to engage in open dialogue and chart the way forward for the benefit of the ordinary citizens. This year’s event was focused on addressing issues of investment, infrastructural gaps, competitiveness and value chain linkages as they relate to the realisation of Vision 2030. —@okazunga