The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT, with support from UNICEF, will start rolling out mass cholera vaccinations in Chimanimani and Chipinge today targeting about 500 000 people. In a telephone interview, Manicaland Provincial Medical Director Dr Patron Mafaune said no cholera cases had been recorded so far in the Cyclone Idai hit areas. Some areas were hit by a diarrhoea outbreak, which the Ministry of Health and Child Care managed to contain. “We will be starting our mass cholera vaccination programme tomorrow (today) to reach about 500 000 people over the next seven days. The programme could last an extra two or so days due to logistical challenges in some places that are not fully accessible,” said Dr Mafaune. She said health ministry officials had embarked on sensitisation campaigns prior to the vaccination programme, enlightening communities on the need and importance of undergoing cholera vaccination as well as to continue practicing high standards of hygiene. “Our teams have been going around teaching people about the importance of getting vaccinated, especially considering the cholera outbreak that our neighbours in Mozambique are experiencing. So we have managed to reach out to most people and let them know that they have to practice the highest standards of hygiene possible under the circumstances and we have been getting positive feedback,” Dr Mafaune said. Meanwhile, the Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce, Cde Raj Modi, is partnering the Bulawayo business community to gather resources to donate to Cyclone Idai victims. Cde Modi will be travelling to Manicaland Province this week to assess the needs of affected people. In an interview yesterday, the Deputy Minister said the donations will be done in May. “I will go alone first and identify areas of need and then will come back so that we sit down and work towards harnessing resources that are relevant to the needs of the people. Some of the people that I have already identified are industrialist Mr Busisa Moyo and a number of other business people,” he said. “On the 1st of May Mr Busisa Moyo and I are going to donate basic goods to survivors of Cyclone Idai. We have two 30 tonne trucks to fill and we ask the corporate sector and individuals who have something to donate to join United Refineries Limited URL and Pintail on our journey to Chipinge and Chimanimani.” Any business people and interested individuals can contact Cde Modi on mobile number 0732 122 732 or send a message on his twitter account @RModiByoSouth or visit his business premises at Liquor hub in Bulawayo. The Deputy Minister commended churches and other individuals who have already donated to Cyclone Idai victims and called for more religious and social groups to donate. “You may be a church or a sports club or any group or individual. You are called to give. No gift is ever too late because need is always there and every gift no matter how big or small, will touch someone’s life,” said Cde Modi. – @andile_tshuma