The Chronicle Pamela Shumba / Courtney Matende, Chronicle Reporters PROVINCIAL Ministers in the country’s southern region yesterday called on people to unite and celebrate the victory attained by heroes who sacrificed their lives for everyone’s freedom. The nation celebrates 39 years of independence on Thursday. According to the provincial mobilisation committees, transport has been organised for all routes and wards for people who wish to attend the Independence Day celebrations. Minister of State for Provincial Affairs in Bulawayo Judith Ncube said Independence Day was a significant and special day that has to be respected by every Zimbabwean. “This is an important day that every single person in the country has to recognise. It’s our duty to celebrate the leadership, bravery and determination that was shown by the sons and daughters of this land. We also have to celebrate the victory they attained in liberating every one of us. “I want to call upon everyone to reflect on what these dedicated people went through for us to be free today and offer special gratitude to our cadres, those who have gone and those who are still with us. We have to show our appreciation by ensuring that we stay united as a nation and develop the nation,” said Minister Ncube. She said preparations for the day were well on course, with the Independence Ball set for tomorrow night at the Large City Hall. “All is in order as we prepare for this significant day. Our committees are on the ground making final touches. I want to invite everyone in the province to join us so that we celebrate Independence Day as a family. “On Wednesday night, we’ll host the Independence Ball at the Large City Hall and preparations for the event are at an advanced stage. People are still welcome to buy tickets which are going for $25 for individuals and $250 for a table of 10,” said Minister Ncube. Matabeleland North Provincial Minister Richard Moyo said his province was also prepared for Independence Day, which will be held at Somhlolo Stadium in Lupane. “Preparations are at an advanced stage for Matabeleland North to join the rest of the country in celebrating Independence Day. I want to call upon everyone in the province to be part of these celebrations. “Those who can’t make it to Lupane can join the celebrations in their respective districts where District Administrators will preside over the celebrations,” said Minister Moyo. In Matabeleland South the main Independence Day commemorations will be held at Pelandaba Stadium in Gwanda, where provincial Minister Abedinico Ncube will lead proceedings.  He yesterday said a lot of ground had been covered in terms of preparations and that they were expecting a huge crowd. He said those who will fail to make it to Gwanda, will converge at various centres in all the province’s seven districts. “Let’s work together as Zimbabweans for national economic development and consolidate the gains of independence. Midlands Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Larry Mavhima said the organising committee has set a target to raise $40 000 towards hosting a successful event at Mkoba Stadium in Gweru. “Our main organising committee for the celebrations has set itself a target of $40 000 towards the main event which will be held at Mkoba Stadium. The target is almost being met and I am confident we will have a successful event,” he said. Min Mavhima said this year’s celebrations were unfortunately coming at a time when the nation was still mourning people who died in Chimanimani and Chipinge following Cyclone Idai which ravaged that part of the country. He encouraged Zimbabweans to come together in times of such disasters. “We will always remember with pride that moment when we raised the Zimbabwean flag after we had removed the shackles of colonial bondage from a master who conceded defeat, albeit grudgingly, that our people had a right to self-determination and to chart their future,” he said. This year’s celebrations will be held under the theme, “Zimbabwe @39 – Embracing Devolution for Vision 2030.” — @pamelashumba1