The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent A MAN from Harare is on the run after he allegedly defrauded a Bulawayo bar of more than RTGS$10 000 under the pretext of securing beer for its owner. Lorence Magaiza of Highfield suburb in Harare allegedly defrauded Safari Bar proprietor Ms Katherine Sibanda (61) claiming that he was a Delta Beverages sales representative and could source beer for her as it was now in short supply. Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango said Magaiza is alleged to have phoned Ms Sibanda informing her of a looming beer shortage and suggested that she pre-orders her stock. “We are investigating a suspected case of fraud involving a male adult from Harare, who misrepresented himself as a sales person for a local beverage company before defrauding a bar owner of $10 3000. “The incident is said to have occurred on February 27. The suspect who is a Harare resident is alleged to have made a phone call to the complainant and introduced himself as a Delta Beverages employee. The accused is alleged to have told his victim that beer was in short supply and suggested that the complainant should make a double order and cash payment upfront so that she would not be inconvenienced in her business,” said Chief Insp Simango. “The accused is said to have given the complainant his bank account details where the funds would be deposited. His victim is said to have made two transactions one for $6 000 and the other for $4 300. “After the funds had been deposited, the accused phoned his victim informing her that he had received the money and her order would be delivered to her in a few days’ time.” She said Ms Sibanda did not receive any goods and Magaiza’s phone was no longer reachable. Chief Insp Simango said the Safari Bar’s owner started making direct inquiries to Delta Beverages about her order. “At Delta Beverages she was told that there was no such employee and there was no beer shortage. That’s when it became clear to her that she had been defrauded and made a police report,” said Chief Insp Simango. She said Ms Sibanda did not recover any money and the suspect is still on the run. “We are appealing to members of the public who might have information that could lead to the arrest of the suspect to approach the nearest police station. “We are also investigating the same suspect for another fraud committed at another local bar as he is said to have used the same method to defraud it. However, I do not have finer details of that case,” she said.—@nqotshili