The Chronicle Walter Mswazie in Masvingo GOVERNMENT has indicated plans to reclaim all mining concessions that have been lying idle amid reports that there are four platinum concessions which have not been exploited since 1970s. Speaking during the handover ceremony of a refurbished theatre and laundry unit by Mimosa Mine at Masvingo General Hospital yesterday, Mines and Mining Development Minister, Winston Chitando, said there were four platinum concessions which were lying idle across the country with some of them found in Masvingo province. He said the owners of these concessions have up to end of this month to develop them or lose them to Government. The Minister said the State was empowered to revoke the licences of such concessions at law. “What Mimosa has done for this hospital is commendable. I challenge its managing director, Mr Fungai Makoni, to consider developing another concession in Masvingo. We have four concessions for platinum lying idle with some undeveloped since 1970,” said Minister Chitando. However, the former Mimosa Mine managing director was reluctant to name the mining companies with undeveloped concessions. He said the Mines and Minerals Act demands that all concessions be paid for every year and that operations were expected to commence within a stipulated period after licensing. “Mimosa Mine holds six percent of platinum reserves only but is doing a great job. Other mines have reserves lying idle but they are not operational. We have given these companies up to 30 April to bring comprehensive plans over these concessions. “We use the ‘use it or lose it’ concept and we are going to revoke their licences through making use of the Mines and Mining Minerals Act,” he said. Minister Chitando said by 2023 all the four unused mining concessions should be operational as the Government needs employment and economic development. He said his ministry will be busy working on the matter for economic benefit in line with President Mnangagwa’s drive towards a vision of attaining middle income status by 2030. Government has said the mining industry should be able to contribute up to US$12 billion by 2030. Meanwhile, Minister Chitando presided over the handover of food stuffs and blankets towards Cyclone Idai victims in Bikita, Zaka, Gutu, Chiredzi and Masvingo where five people have died and more than 6 000 had their homes damaged. Speaking at the same occasion, Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Ezra Chadzamira, hailed Mimosa Mine for the gesture. “We want to thank Mimosa Mine for adding value to our vision to have corporates supporting Government entities. I, therefore, challenge other companies in Masvingo to emulate Mimosa who despite being in Zvishavane, have refurbished a laundry unit and theatre,” he said. — @walterbmswazie2.