The Chronicle Nesia Mhaka, Harare Bureau Government is actively pursuing public-private partnerships, which have produced positive results in the development of the country, an official has said. Transport and Infrastructure Development Deputy Minister Fortune Chasi said this during the African Forum Conference organised by Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport International (CILT) in Harare recently to promote the participation of public-private sector and other stakeholders in transport and infrastructure development. Deputy Minister Chasi said it was important for private players to partner Government in certain capital projects. “It is fortunate that Zimbabwe accommodates the private sector in infrastructure development through PPPs,” he said. “PPPs are vital in this ministry as they bring efficiency of business to the delivery of public service and this prevents full privatisation. “They allow the Government to retain ownership while private sector performs a specific function such as maintaining and operating infrastructure such as water and electricity. “Historically, initiatives to expand the private sector started in 1990 to provide infrastructure, but were inconclusive. One of the most notable achievements was the private concession that provided rail service in 1998 on some 385 kilometres of track between Bulawayo and Beitbridge Railway by the Beitbridge Bulawayo Rail Company. “This was a huge success and profit making venture at a time when the National Railways of Zimbabwe, which runs a track stretching over 2 600km, was a perennial loss maker and an albatross on the fiscus.” Deputy Minister Chasi said his ministry was optimistic that it will reach its maximum in construction and development of infrastructure in pursuit of Vision 2030. CILT new international vice president for Africa and chair for the Africa Forum Dr Newton Demba said as an institute they will continue to work with the Government in the acceleration of construction and development of transport and logistics infrastructure in Zimbabwe, as well as Southern Africa. “It is positive for Zimbabwe as a nation as it demonstrates its ability to produce leaders who are able to drive and make meaningful contribution within the continent and at global level,” he said. “It also shows that the re-engagements efforts at national level are yielding results as countries are warming up to the call that Zimbabwe is open for business. “Our principal objective as an institute is to promote and encourage the art and science of supply chain, logistics and transport in our territories and branches such as Zimbabwe.” CILT International is a leading professional body representing supply chain, logistics and transport industries worldwide.