The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Baseball Association has announced a 24- member squad that will take part in a two pronged Olympic qualifier set to take place in South Africa later this month and in early next month. The first phase of the qualifiers will feature Zimbabwe, Lesotho and the hosts with the first two teams proceeding to the Africa Olympics qualifier where they will then clash with winners from the West and East zones. Countries making the West zone are Ghana, Burkina Faso and Nigeria while Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda make up the East zone. These games will be held over three days from April 27-29 at Boksburg Baseball Club in Johannesburg. ZBA president Morris Banda said they were hopeful of coming out as one of the six teams that will participate at the Africa Olympic qualifiers from May 1-5 also at the Boksburg Baseball Club. “The team that will win at the Africa Olympic qualifier will proceed to play in the Europe/Africa Olympic Games Continental qualifier and the winning team from these qualifiers will then book a ticket to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics,” wrote Banda in a communiqué to the media. As part of its preparations, the Zimbabwe squad will camp at Hamilton High School in Bulawayo from April 16 up until departure for South Africa eight days later. “In preparation for these tournaments, ZBA has been organising national team training camps and games for the national side over the last few years and these were used to select the players to represent Zimbabwe,” wrote Banda. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe squad received a timely boost in the form of donations from a Japanese sports equipment company, ZETT Cooperation who gave the national side equipment and uniform for use during camp and the qualifiers. “We would also like to acknowledge the financial support of the Zimbabwe Yakyukai Group in Japan, a Japanese Overseas Cooperation Volunteers (JOCV) members who work in Zimbabwe as volunteer and many other people who support ZBA,” said Banda. Zimbabwe Baseball squad: Vincent Chaima, Thembani Moyo, Blessing Fredy, Witness Muzire,Tanyaradzwa Hugwe Hloniphani Ngulube, Tanyaradzwa Katsaruware, Tadiwanashe Bhasera, Nathaniel Tashinga Kutsanza, Pika Collen, Tinashe Kwangwari, Lovejoy Saungweme, Nelson Mapika, Sherperd Sibanda, Luxton Mawanga, Joel Tenderere, Emmanuel Moyo, Cliff shane Vint Reserve players: Brandon Majobo, Kelvin Kawadza, Sean Sande, Eldon Mudzingwa,Cuthbert Nyamangara, Carl Shaun Vint. Technical Team Head of delegation: Morris Banda Team manager: John Madziro Head coach: Nao Tsutsumi Assistant coaches: Americo Juma, Washington Nyika, Naoki taniyama Team medic: Lundinkosi Mguni Officiating officials: Scorer: Joleen Ncube Umpire: Matthew Banda