The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent EXQ walked away the biggest winner at the National Arts Merit Awards with two gongs while radio personality/comedian Babongile Sikhonjwa, actress Qeqeshiwe Mntambo, Vusa Blaqs and poet Likhwa Ncube had one award each. The awards ceremony was held in Harare under the theme: ‘African Royalty’. The event also paid tribute to departed artistes, among them multi-award winners – writer Charles Mungoshi and national hero Oliver Mtukudzi, who died early this year. ExQ was adjudged to be the Outstanding Male and also clinched the Outstanding Album gong during the ceremony. Sikhonjwa was adjudged the Outstanding Journalist for Radio while Qeqe walked away with the Outstanding Actress in Theatre award for her role as Pinky in The Hostel. Outstanding Song, which was really a competition between Zimdancehall artistes, went to Enzo Ishall for his song Kanjiva, beating the highly fancied Sweetie (Shinga Muroora) by Jah Signal. The Outstanding Female award went to gospel musician Janet Manyowa, the Zadzisa hit maker. A very big surprise for many, but not for those who follow listenership on radio stations such as Radio Zimbabwe and National FM, was gospel musician Mai Patai who won the People’s Choice Award. She made light work of the likes of Winky D and Seh Calaz. In the Outstanding Music video category, renowned videographer Vusa Blaqs came up tops for producing Jah Prayzah’s Dzamutsana music video. The scenic music video got rave reviews for its rural traditional setting that brought out the rich cultural diversity Zimbabwe possesses in all corners of the country. Below is the full list of winners. 1. SPOKEN WORD AWARDS Outstanding Poet Likhwa Ncube – aka Likhwa okaNcube Special Mention Tanaka Tshuma aka ECTS Outstanding Comedian Learnmore Mwanyenyeka – aka Long John 2. LITERARY ARTS AWARDS Outstanding First Creative Published Book Gather the Children by Batsirai Chigama [Ntombekhaya Poetry] Outstanding Children’s Book The City Girl by Elisha July and Tendai K. Rudanda [Pass-Point Publishers] Outstanding Fiction Mazai Emheni by Daniel Mutendi [DanTs Media Publishing] 3. THEATRE AWARDS Outstanding Actor Teddy Mangawa in Ukama Outstanding Actress Qeqeshiwe Mtambo in The Hostel Outstanding Theatrical Production Ukama by Savanna Trust Outstanding Director Lloyd Nyikadzino for Zandezi 4. DANCE AWARDS Outstanding Female Dancer Vein N. Alfazema in Black Sheep Outstanding Male Dancer Martin Chabuka in 100% Afro Outstanding Dance Group Real Flex Dance Group directed by Martin Chabuka Outstanding Choreographer Macintosh Jerahuni & Chaleen Chimara – Iwe Neni Tinebasa 5. VISUAL ARTS AWARDS Outstanding 2 Dimensional Work The Demolition by John Kotze Outstanding 3 Dimensional Work Zvirimudombo by Shelton Mubayi Outstanding Mix Media Work The Watchman and the Fence I by Greg Shaw Outstanding Exhibition The Grotesque by Alan Sibanda & Talent Kapadza 6. FILM AND TELEVISION AWARDS Outstanding Actor Eddie Sandifolo as Clive in Bhachi Special Mention Admire Kuzhangaira – in Death and Other Complications Outstanding Actress Tendaishe Chitima as Anesu in Cook Off Outstanding Music Video Dzamutsana produced by Vusa Hlatshayo ft. Jah Prayzah Outstanding Screen Production (Television Series) Kuchina The Genesis directed by Blessing Gatsi Special Mention Gaza directed by Ben Mahaka Outstanding Screen Production – Short Film Bhachi directed by Shupai Kamunyaru Outstanding Screen Production – Full Length Film Cook Off directed by Thomas Brickhill 7. MEDIA AWARDS Outstanding Journalist – Print Fred Zindi – Standard Outstanding Journalist – Television Patience Nyagato – ZTV Outstanding Journalist – Radio Babongile Sikhonjwa – Sky Metro FM Outstanding Online Media Capitalk 8. MUSIC AWARDS Outstanding Female Musician Janet Manyowa Outstanding Male Musician Enoch Munhenga aka ExQ – Winner Outstanding Album Tseu Tseu by Enock Munhenga aka ExQ Outstanding Song Kanjiva by Stephen K. Mamhere aka Enzo Ishal 9. SPECIAL AWARDS Artist in the Diaspora Danai J. Gurira Outstanding Promoter Unplugged Viewers Choice Award Mai Patai – Winner Arts Personality Award Mokoomba Arts Service Award The Standard Newspaper Lifetime Achievement Award Dr Charles Mungoshi