The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter LISTED technology solutions firm, Cassava Smartech Zimbabwe, yesterday launched the Vaya logistics unit, an additional entity that deals with delivery trucks and van services under its Vaya division. The launch of the new product was done at the Cassava Smartech stand at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF). Like any ordinary ride, the trucks and vans can be “easily” booked from anywhere at any time via the convenience of a mobile application, management said. Chief executive officer Mrs Dorothy Zimuto said the launch came about after Cassava had noticed high demand for service to transport cargo on the market. “Today, here in Bulawayo, we are launching Vaya logistics under the Vaya division because we noticed that there is a need to transport cargo from one place to another,” she said. She said the company noticed that people using Vaya mobile were bringing cargo along with them which small rides could not transport. “Previously we only had Vaya express, which moved small packages from one point to another but we have now introduced vans and trucks that can transport heavier cargo,” said Mrs Zimuto. She said the services were not in competition with any business but were rather complementing what is already on the market. Mrs Zimuto said Cassava was working on introducing waste disposal services and Vaya specialist services such as borehole drilling, road construction and plumbing under the Vaya division. She said Cassava was looking at creating a pool of builders, plumbers, electricians, agronomists, mechanics, drivers, nurse aides, carpenters, tillers, tailors, tutors, hair dressers, barbers and domestic workers so that they can be connected to their various markets under an initiative called Technites. Cassava Smartech has managed to successfully bring into operation Vaya tractor and ambulance services, which can also be accessed on the Vaya mobile app. Meanwhile, Cassava Smartech, taking advantage of the ZITF platform, has also launched its shuttle services by offering free rides to exhibitors, business people and professionals travelling to the trade fair by air. Throughout the trade fair week, the Vaya shuttle will be offering free shuttle service to all visitors to ZITF landing at Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo International Airport. – @queentauruszw