The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
GOVERNMENT has allocated RTGS$5,8 million towards completion of the Gwanda Provincial Magistrate’s Court which has been lying idle for more than 10 years. Speaking yesterday during a tour to assess progress of work being done, Chief Justice Luke Malaba said the project was expected to be completed in the next 18 months. He urged all stakeholders involved in the project to remain committed in order to ensure its completion. “My purpose of coming here was to inspect this project and see the works that have been done. I also came to give momentum and hope that Government remains concerned about this project and is determined to see its completion. Government has this year allocated RTGS$5,8 million from the national budget for completion of this project,” he said. Justice Malaba said the money was not enough and Government would mobilise more resources to ensure completion of the project. “When this allocation is used up, we will approach Treasury for additional funding. I’m confident that Government will continue supporting the completion of this project and in the next 18 months it must be completed. May all stakeholders involved in this project set timelines to complete work so that we meet the set target,” said Chief Justice Malaba. He said Government was concerned that Gwanda which is the provincial capital for Matabeleland South does not have a proper court structure. “We have been concerned as the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) that Gwanda is the capital of the province but it doesn’t have a magistrate’s court. That’s an anomaly that shouldn’t have been allowed up to this time. We assure Gwanda residents that this will be corrected. We are impressed with the model of this building as it will accommodate all relevant departments that operate from the courts. “Courts are important in any society, particularly in democracy and this project has to be treated with the urgency it deserves,” he said. CJ Malaba said the Gwanda court complex was a state of the art building which was a symbol of architectural display. He said already a lot of work had been done on the building hence the need to speed up its completion so that it could be used. CJ Malaba was accompanied by members of the JSC Secretariat and Department of Public Works officers. The complex comprises a basement with holding cells, a ground floor with four court rooms and offices as well as the first floor with four court rooms and offices. —@DubeMatutu