The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter THE Confederation of Zimbabwean Industries (CZI) has urged companies in Matabeleland to take a leading role in this year’s Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) to clinch lucrative deals. The international trade showcase begins in Bulawayo tomorrow and ends Saturday.  It will run under the theme: “Propagating Industrial Growth through Trade and Investment”. Outgoing CZI president for the Matabeleland chapter, Mr Joseph Gunda, said Bulawayo companies should come together to show the world that the city still has a viable industry that needs support to further flourish. “The ZITF period is one of the most important business periods in Bulawayo. Businesses in Bulawayo should be visible, they should build up a show that there is still business happening and by so doing they attract visiting investors both internationally and locally,” he said. Mr Gunda said Imvumila industrial area in Bulawayo and Donnington corridor in Bulawayo were declared as special economic zones (SEZs) and that the city should take it as an opportunity to transform its economy so that visitors into the city will be enticed by the level of economic development. He said since its inception the trade fair has been dominated by companies outside Bulawayo and that tradition had to change. “Bulawayo is rich in terms of opportunity, two SEZs were declared in the city but the people of Bulawayo have been relaxed in using these granted opportunities to their advantage,” he said. “These SEZs should be used to transform Bulawayo’s economy at a great magnitude attracting investors who come through platforms like the ZITF. “Bulawayo as rich as it is, should not take a back seat while other companies coming from outside Bulawayo dominate the trade fair, which is hosted in its grounds.” Mr Gunda also urged the Bulawayo industry to participate during the ZITF proceedings. He said the industry should meet with potential investors and suppliers and in so doing create lasting business relations and exchange notes. “Of importance is that companies in and around Bulawayo must avoid working in silos; they should consider coming together and supporting each other through collective procurement,” he said. “It is high time Bulawayo rewrites history and takes back its former glory. Our industry is not archaic; it is just perception that needs to change. Before we start thinking of help coming from elsewhere, let us help ourselves first by being visible and the rest will follow.” Uganda President Yoweri Museveni will officially open this year’s ZITF on Friday. The ZITF Company has confirmed that 14 foreign nations will participate at the ZITF, which include Germany, US and Belarus. — @queentauruszw