The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Highlanders midfield enforcer Blessing Gumiso has accused some Bosso players of betraying the trust bestowed on them by head coach Madinda Ndlovu. The ailing Bulawayo giants have gone for 450 minutes without registering a win in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League. Bosso have lost twice and drawn three times, scoring twice and conceding four times in the process. They lost 3-1 to Harare City, 1-0 to Triangle United, registered two goalless draws against Caps United and newboys Mushowani Stars and 1-1 against Black Rhinos. The only victory Bosso have managed this season was a 2-0 thumping of an equally struggling Dynamos outfit in the Independence Cup final at the National Sports Stadium. Despite starting on a seemingly positive note when they came from behind to draw 1-1 against army side Black Rhinos, Bosso have failed to click. The goalless draw against league debutants Mushowani Stars has left Bosso perched in the relegation zone with an embarrassing three points, 10 points behind champions and log leaders FC Platinum. Gumiso, who joined Bosso in 1998 from Mutare and went on to win four league titles on the trot under Rahman Gumbo and the late Eddie May, yesterday tore into some players for their lackadaisical approach to the Highlanders cause. He rejected the pre-season player unrest excuse for the woeful start. “I don’t buy this notion that it’s all because of the strike. I mean the team trains at least three times a week and we are now in week five, so to me that doesn’t suffice,” said Gumiso. “I feel some of these boys are betraying the coach by not giving their all. At Highlanders it’s not just about doning that jersey physically, but also about wearing it even in your heart. One must be Highlanders in clothing and at heart. We need to have 90 percent if not 100 percent of the players being prepared to fight for the Highlanders’ cause, but from what I can deduce some are not doing that,” he said. Gumiso said there is need for a no holds barred indaba involving the executive, players and the technical bench before the situation further degenerates. “Love conquers everything; if there is no affection nothing moves, so maybe the executive needs to call for an indaba with the players and coaches and freely talk about what is happening. Supporters are hurt out there and their patience must not be stretched too far,” said Gumiso. Bosso take on unpredictable Hwange in their next match at Barbourfields Stadium and the fans wait with bated breath for the club to collect its first maximum points. The poor start to the season is, however, not Highlanders’ first in their history, as in 1983 the team went for 10 games without a win, managing just a single point.