The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent THE National University of Science and Technology (Nust) is set to nurture a Botswana university in setting 11 post graduate programmes as the two institutions strengthen their co-operation. Nust in 2016 signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with BAI SAGO University on matters of institutional growth through sharing of knowledge and skills. BAI SAGO University officials this week visited Nust to discuss ways of further strengthening their relationship. The university has since expressed interest in introducing 11 new post graduate degrees offered by Nust starting in January next year. In an interview yesterday, Nust’s director of communication and marketing Mr Felix Moyo said synergies of higher and tertiary institutions were important for Africa’s development agenda. “Development is always through knowledge sharing and BAI SAGO seeks to introduce Nust programmes in the Faculties of Applied Science, Communication and Information Science, Faculty of Commerce and Faculty of Built Environment by 2020,” said Mr Moyo. “BAI SAGO University expressed interest in the following post graduate programmes, Executive Masters of Business Administration, MBA – Public Management, MSc Risk Management and Insurance, MSc Financial Engineering, Masters of Science in Applied Mathematics Modelling and Masters of Science in Operations Research and Statistics.” He said the Botswana university also expressed interest in introducing Masters in Science in Eco-Tourism and Biodiversity Conservation, MSc in Environmental Health, MSc in Construction and Project Management and MSc in Records and Archives Management. Mr Moyo said the BAI SAGO University officials expressed confidence in the cooperation between universities for higher and tertiary education sectoral growth. “BAI SAGO University president stated that she believes in universities in Africa working together to increase growth of the universities. A university can grow stronger by joining hands with other good institutions. Therefore their university came to Nust to adopt programmes, modules and even teaching techniques that will help maintain standards,” said Mr Moyo. He said officials from BAI SAGO University also suggested that there be a policy framework which will enable Nust lecturers being guest lecturers at the Botswana university. Mr Moyo said Nust will also benefit from the transfer of knowledge and technology in its co-operation with the neighbouring country’s higher and tertiary institution. The two universities’ MoU is in line with Zimbabwe Government’s Bi-National relationship with the Botswana government which saw the two countries in February signing agreements of co-operation in science and technology areas. — @nqotshili.