The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter A HIGHLANDERS Football Club supporter, Thandolwenkosi “Timo” Tshuma, who died in a car accident while on his way from watching the Bosso and Caps United match at Barbourfields Stadium, was buried yesterday at his rural home at Esibomvu, Umzingwane District in Matabeleland South. Tshuma (31) died on the spot while five other people were injured after the vehicles they were travelling in were involved in a head-on collision at Valley Tavern along the Bulawayo-Gwanda Road on Sunday. Hundreds of Highlanders fans attended an all-night vigil at Esibomvu on Thursday after putting up an emotional road show from Bulawayo. The Highlanders executive committee of chairman Kenneth Mhlophe, vice-chairman Modern Ngwenya, secretary Israel Moyo, treasurer Donald Ndebele, committee member Wisdom Mabhena, chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube and first team welfare manager Vezigama Dlodlo attended a service held at Nyaradzo funeral parlour in Bulawayo on Thursday. From Nyaradzo, Tshuma’s body passed through Barbourfields Stadium where fans broke into songs and dance, before proceeding to the Highlanders Clubhouse for a brief stopover. Speaking on behalf of the club at the burial yesterday, Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters’ Association (ZNSSA) Bulawayo wing chairman Carlmarx Nkomo said: “The death of Tshuma is a loss to the club because he was a true supporter of the club, travelling to all away and attending home games. The presence of Highlanders executives at the funeral parlour yesterday (Thursday) and the presence of these supporters here is testimony of the good work that Tshuma did in supporting the club. It also shows how big an institution Highlanders is because here are people from all over the country who came to pay their last respects to a person who they knew because of Highlanders.” Mandla Nkala, who drove from Botswana, said: “Timo was a member of the Team Away group of Highlanders supporters who travel for all the away games. We’ve lost a friend and a brother. Hopefully, the boys will honour him by winning tomorrow’s game against Harare City.” — @ZililoR