The Chronicle Elita Chikwati, Harare Bureau The Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa) has resuscitated irrigation schemes and water supply stations that were affected or had equipment damaged by Cyclone Idai, with most affected areas now receiving normal service. The resuscitation was done at a cost of $750 000. Zinwa has restored normal service at Nyanyadzi and Middle Sabi irrigation systems and Murambinda, Nyanyadzi, Matendeudze, Chibuwe, Tanganda, Birchenough Bridge, Rimbi, Odzi, Romsely, Zimunya, Checheche and Chipangayi water supply stations which were all affected by the cyclone. People in the areas are now receiving normal water supplies. Zinwa corporate communications manager Mrs Marjorie Munyonga yesterday said the parastatal had also restored water supplies in Chimanimani and Chipinge, with the majority of households already having water from their taps. “In the case of Chipinge, the water treatment plant is now fully functional, while Zinwa teams on the ground have also managed to repair three out of the seven boreholes in the area,” she said. “Only Biriiri Water Supply Station is yet to be restored and work is already underway to ensure that normal pumping resumes at the station.” Zinwa also replaced washed away water delivery mains, reticulation pipelines, flooded pump sets and blown away water storage facility roofs. “At Middle Sabi, Zinwa repaired canal access roads, removed silt from the overnight storage dams and replaced washed away canal panels,” she said. “Through our ground water section, we have also drilled boreholes at Ngangu Primary School, the Village Camp in Chimanimani, Birchenough Bridge and Tanganda. Water has also been made available at all accessible camps through water bowsers and tanks that Zinwa has deployed as part of its interventions to bring safe potable water to affected communities.” Mrs Munyonga said the authority will continue to work with all the relevant stakeholders in alleviating the plight of the people affected by Cyclone Idai.