The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter INDUSTRY and Commerce Deputy Minister, Raj Modi, has said the hosting of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) in Bulawayo is critical in attracting increased investment and creating more jobs in the city. Speaking on the sidelines of the Public Finance Management (PFM) reform indaba hosted by the Zimbabwe Coalition on Debt and Development (ZIMCODD) at a local hotel last week Deputy Minister Modi said Government had put in place special economic zones (SEZs) in Bulawayo to ease the pressure of doing business in the city. “The Government is prioritising the revival of the Bulawayo industry. The SEZs, which were put in place by Government in Bulawayo, are part of Government’s efforts to revive the city. We want investors to come into Bulawayo through this initiative,” he said. The Deputy Minister said through the Government’s initiatives, investors were actually recognising the viability of the Bulawayo business sector and that the ZITF platform was there to cement such efforts. “Through the various initiatives that Government is putting in place, a pharmaceutical company was here last week to look at avenues that they can invest in the city,” he said. Deputy Minister Modi said during the ZITF period the Bulawayo business sector should take advantage of the measures Government has put in place to try revive the city’s industry by marketing themselves to investors who would have come from across the globe. “The ZITF period should be a period that the Bulawayo industry shows its potential and growth. They should market themselves and take advantage of all Government has put in place for the revival of the city’s industry,” he said. “They should be visible and participate during the period by exchanging ideas with other local business people and international heads also.” The ZITF will be running from April 23 to April 27 under the theme “Propagating Industrial Growth through Trade and Investment.” Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni will officially open this year’s ZITF on Friday, 26 April. Organisers have indicated that 14 foreign nationals will be participating at the ZITF, which includes successful economies like the United States, Germany and Belarus. – @queentauruszw.