The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter THE Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries (CZI) has started convening elective annual general meetings for all its chapters across the country starting with the Matabeleland chamber today. Outgoing regional president, Mr Joseph Gunda, said their AGM would elect executive committee members for the Matabeleland chapter who will have a maximum term of office of two years. “The AGM for CZI Matabeleland chapter will be held at Impala Lodge in Bulawayo on Wednesday (today). All members are expected to attend because it is at the AGM where we then elect new executive members,” he said. “The term of office for CZI members is two years but if members still want you in office they will vote you back. We have done our full term now and it’s time for the election of new members.” CZI elections for regional chapters are held every year and in 2018, Mr Gunda and his executive members were re-elected. Similar marathon events will be held in the Midlands, Manicaland and Mashonaland regions ahead of the CZI AGM later this year. Mr Gunda said the outgoing executive members were happy to leave office having made a significant impact in efforts to turnaround the economy through promoting industrial recovery and growth. “We have got a degree of satisfaction in terms of the work that we have done during our tenure of office. We have created a good relationship with Government highlighting and warning them of various developments in the economy and what we think as industry will certainly help. “We have followed up the policies that were there, the Special Economic Zones (SEZs), we pushed the agenda together with my team and I think we are leaving office at a time that process (implementation of SEZs) has moved to a level where the SEZs are being established as some of our members applied and were successful,” he said. Mr Gunda said CZI Matabeleland chapter has received audience from Government in terms of the business suggestions on policy framework. He said the adoption of the interbank exchange rate system was their suggestion and urged the manufacturing sector to continue lobbying for protection from cheap imports. — @okazunga.