The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter THE ruling Zanu-PF party has resolved to reserve a quota for people living with disability in its structures to encourage them to participate in politics. The decision was made by the party’s Politburo in a circular dated March 29 and sent to all the provinces. The resolution, according to the circular seen by this publication, means that the post of Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons in the party’s structures has to be filled by a person living with disability. Prior to this, able bodied people could represent people living with disabilities in positions. “Addressees are by the way of this communiqué reminded to take note of the Zanu-PF constitutional provision to ensure that the post of Secretary for Welfare of the Disabled and Disadvantaged Persons is filled by appropriate persons during the ongoing restructuring exercise. The post is catered for from branch to the provincial level and hence should be occupied by a person who qualifies as disabled. At a cell level one of the committee members should fit under these criteria with a view to ensure that our cell structures are commensurate with the needs of the disabled,” reads the circular signed by the party’s Secretary for Commissariat, Rtd Lt General Engelbert Rugeje. The decision was reportedly advocated for by Special Advisor to the President on Disability, Cde Joshua Malinga. Cde Malinga bemoaned ill-treatment by society saying disability is from God as he encouraged those with disabilities to come together and advocate for betterment of their lives. In an interview yesterday, vice chairperson of National Disability Board Mr Edward Mundanga said the decision by the ruling party is an achievement for people with disabilities as they will now be able to represent themselves. “We would want to express our gratitude to his Excellency and Politburo for passing the resolution. That’s a very big milestone for people with disabilities and it makes us proud that we are being recognised. This means we are being encouraged to participate in politics without exclusion,” he said. Mr Mundanga said people living with disabilities are grateful to President Mnangagwa for being a listening leader. “We have always been advocating for this to happen. Prior to this able bodied people could represent people living with disabilities and we also thank Cde Malinga for this,” he added. Mr Mundanga said people with disabilities were advocating for at least 20 seats in Parliament as they constitute between 10 and 15 percent of the total population. He said there is a need for some amendments to the country’s Constitution to capacitate people with disabilities. Mr Mundanga appealed to Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Minister Dr Sekesai Nzenza and Government to capacitate the National Disability Board with resources for it to be able to carry out its mandate. He said the National Disabled Persons Act is key to addressing disabled people’s grievances. Calls have been made for the disabled to fully participate in national transformation programmes to better their lives. — @ncubeleon