The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Premier Soccer League (PSL) is on the verge of sealing sponsorship deals for a four-team invitational tournament as well as a top-eight competition to illuminate domestic football. In an exclusive interview with Chronicle Sport during the blockbuster Castle Lager Premiership encounter between Highlanders and Caps United at Barbourfields on Sunday, PSL chairman Farai Jere said details of the deals will be announced next week. Jere said the PSL has been working around the clock to bring more “partners” into football, adding that the country’s football flagship has become a brand of choice for corporates. “We are at a stage where we are trying to push the brand. Next week we will be talking about a top four invitational tournament that will be based on what the sponsor asks for. We have a top eight sponsor to be announced next week. We’re very busy with these sponsorship deals and this is a clear sign that the PSL brand has become a brand of choice. Lots of sponsors are jostling to be in partnership with the PSL and we’re not resting,” said Jere. The two competitions will mean that the league, that has Castle Lager as sponsors for the championship, will have three tournaments this season, with the Chibuku Super Cup that caters for all teams being the third competition. The coming on board of the two sponsors comes weeks after the league entered into an exciting new era after unveiling a three-year sponsorship deal with Fidelity Life Assurance that caters for the medical welfare of players and technical officials. Under the deal, which is pegged close to $1 million per season, the players will no longer have to worry about medical bills while those who suffer career-ending injuries are set to get a once-off lump sum of $15 000. The cover, however, applies to injuries sustained during official PSL duties. Fidelity Life also availed life assurance and a funeral benefit plan for players and officials of all the 18 PSL teams. “We need more sponsors so that the players also get something. We are pushing for more sponsorship, even for clubs,” Jere said. – @ZililoR.