The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
MATABELELAND Rugby Football Board (MRFB) passed a vote of no confidence in their executive, replacing it with an interim one that has been given the mandate to organise elections in three months. The board failed to escape the vote of no confidence having managed to hold on to power for a month following postponement of the December 2018 general meeting. Clubs accused the board of incompetence and deliberately flouting the constitution. Clubs and interim board sources confirmed that changes have been made to manage the MRFB operations until elections. Fungai Mudzekenyedzi, who was the vice-chairman of the ousted board is the interim chairman. The new faces that have been included into the board are tag rugby’s Thembelani Ncube and Precious Mikazhu. Cheetahs coach and local businessman Gilbert Nyamutsamba has also been roped into the interim board. Former chairman Thulani Tabulawa and Craig Change survived the axe and have also been included into the interim board. “As clubs we agreed, an interim one should be set and should organise elections within three months. It was agreed that to facilitate for smooth sailing, let’s include the members of the board that has been dissolved into the interim committee. “Everyone is happy about the move and we hope rugby will be the winner at the end of the day,” said a club source. The interim board whose first assignment is to organise the Under-21 pre-season tournament also resolved to have only Mudzekenyedzi commenting on rugby matters. “You got it right, board changes were made at the meeting held on Sunday (January 6). It was a low key meeting, held without inviting the media because there were fears that there might be clashes. It was then agreed that nothing will be released to the media, the spokesperson of the association (Simba Dangah) was also gagged and that is why you’re seeing that nothing was updated on the MRFB Facebook page. If there’s anyone who can comment, it was agreed that Mudzekenyedzi will issue a statement once this dust settles,” said a board source. Repeated efforts to get comment from Mudzekenyedzi andTabulawa were fruitless.
— @ZililoR