The Chronicle Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter
Finance and Economic Development Minister Professor Mthuli Ncube has condemned the violence and destruction of property during protests saying while the people have the right to express themselves, they should do so responsibly. The opposition MDC -Allince and its affiliate organisations such as Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU) instigated the violent protests which resulted in the death of six people including a police officer. A number of shops were destroyed and looted by the hooligans who also torched vehicles including buses. Addressing the media in Davos last week, Prof Ncube said: “What you saw in the streets is a clear sign the democratic space has been opened. This couldn’t happen in the past but it’s happening now, meaning President Mnangagwa is serious about opening up the democratic space.” “However, we do not condone the violence which characterised these demonstrations. Although it is a constitutional right to demonstrate, people should be responsible enough and do it peacefully. Rule of law should take precedence. In fact President Mnangagwa issued a very clear statement, saying there is no room for violence in Zimbabwe.” Asked why the internet was temporarily shut down during the stay-away, he said: “Government had duty to protect the country from the pre-planned violence and it had to use several means and the internet shutdown was part of it.” Emerging evidence has revealed that the protests had nothing to do with President Mnangagwa’s announcement of fuel price increase but were part of a broader agenda to effect illegal regime change. “There was already swell and this was one of the issues that was added on. But coming to fuel in specific is that fuel was already trading at a higher price in other quarters,” said Prof Ncube. “There is a parallel market that had emerged and that’s where fuel was available as well. The price that was announced is not too far away from what was already out there.” The Minister urged Zimbabweans to embrace and support the reforms being implemented to revive the economy. “This is about progress, about the future and reforms. Reforms are never easy so we call for everyone to work together. The President has also called for dialogue so that we can face these challenges together,” he said. “It is not normal for a country not to have its own currency and it’s not normal for this type of decay to be allowed, we need to change course.” Minister Ncube announced that the country will have its own currency within the next 12 months and Government is working on raising enough foreign currency to anchor it. – @esinathy_essira