The Chronicle Mukudzei Chingwere, Midlands Correspondent
THE Airforce of Zimbabwe (AFZ) is fully behind Government’s quest to transform the economy under the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP), a senior officer said on Friday. Commander of the AFZ Air Marshal Elson Moyo said President Mnangagwa’s Government which is working on growing the economy, launched the TSP with a vision of achieving an upper middle income economy by 2030. Air Marshal Moyo was speaking at the pass out parade of basic officers at the Josiah Tungamirai Air force base in Gweru . Under the TSP the Second Republic is implementing some austerity measures to address the economic challenges that are bedevilling the country and Air Marshal Moyo called on the nation and members of the force to be patient. Air Marshal Moyo told soldiers under his command that he is aware of the economic challenges they are facing but assured them that he is confident that the economy will be transformed and implored the service men not to lose heart. “I am aware of the challenges that you faced during your training as a result of the economic challenges facing our nation. “Let me assure you that these challenges will be addressed under the new dispensation. It is very pleasing to note that in spite of these challenges you remained resolute and dedicated to complete the programme,” he said. Air Marshal Moyo said Government was addressing the economic challenges bedeviling the country. “Our economy will grow and on our part as the Airforce of Zimbabwe, we will remain resolute in performing our roles in order to ensure that there is peace and stability in the country,” he said Friday’s graduation ceremony saw professionals who acquired various competences before joining the AFZ being integrated into the force. “The Air Force of Zimbabwe is an integrated organisation which has got almost all the departments which are found in Government. This is why among those graduating today are doctors, accountants and administrators,” said Air Marshal Moyo. The Airforce Commander said the disturbances that rocked the country recently are counter development and this should not be allowed to happen again. “For us to realise economic growth, there should be peace and stability in our country. It is our primary role to ensure that we provide that peace and stability in the country. Without peace there is no way we can develop as a country,” he said.