The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
DYNAMOS winger Cleopas Kapupurika has crossed the great divide, dumping the Harare club in favour of Bulawayo soccer giants Highlanders. The 22-year-old dribbling wizard, who was on loan at Dynamos from FC Platinum for two seasons signed a two-year deal with Highlanders on Wednesday. The talented Kapupurika, whose attributes are also speed, ability to take on defenders and create scoring opportunities for teammates is a direct replacement for Gabriel Nyoni who has joined Caps United. “Cleopas Kapupurika has joined us on a two-year contract and we are happy to have him on board. He has been in constant touch with the coach and fits directly into the club’s philosophy. He is young and the technical team has been monitoring him for a while, they know his capabilities. Remember, Kapupurika is one player who was a thorn in the flesh for us in the first leg of the league match last season as well as in the ZTA organised game. It is our hope that he will give us the value that the technical team saw in him and have a great stay at Highlanders,” said Nhlanhla Dube, Highlanders chief executive officer. The coming in of Kapupurika, a natural winger will give Highlanders an attacking edge and options to their style of play. What is clear about Kapupurika’s signing is that Highlanders are keen on having a lethal attack, that will get them more goals compared to last season’s 34 goals in 34 matches. Bosso have also signed strikers Bukhosi Sibanda and Prince Dube to strengthen their attack. Former Young Warriors skipper Nqobizitha Masuku has also signed for Highlanders. The Bulawayo giants who held a targeted players training camp last weekend are also closing in on Bulawayo City goalkeeper Wellington Muuya as well as Mutare City Rovers shot stopper Alfred Chinanha who will give cover to seasoned Ariel Sibanda. Aces Youth Soccer Academy’s 19-year-old striker Russell Chifura and Talen Vision’s utility player Mbekezeli Sibanda who impressed coach Madinda Ndlovu at last weekend’s training programme are also expected to be among the 2019 signings. Bosso are expected to announce the players that they will be releasing to accommodate their new signings.
— @ZililoR