The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
FOREIGN currency shortages stalled Government construction projects in Matabeleland North resulting in the province failing to reach some of its targets, Provincial Minister Cde Richard Moyo has said. In an interview, Cde Moyo said price hikes resulted in Government departments failing to get materials from suppliers as they started demanding payment in foreign currency. The price hikes saw most products in the construction sector being sold in foreign currency coupled with temporary shortage of cement. “The year ended badly for us as we could not complete some of the projects that we had earmarked would be completed before year end. We had hoped to complete the Lupane Government Complex which would have paved way for the relocation of all civil servants to Lupane. But due to price hikes some suppliers of the construction material started charging us in foreign currency which we did not have as Government,” said Cde Moyo. “I will be meeting with the Public Works department employees this week to get an update on how we are going to progress this year. We hope to have moved to Lupane by March this year. Already the passport office is now operating from Lupane which is what all of us should have done.” He said Ingwigwizi Bridge along the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road was supposed to have been completed in December but that was not achieved due to economic challenges. Cde Moyo said the rainy season has also delayed works on the Bulawayo- Nkayi Road but he was hopeful that more work will be done to improve the road this year. The Provincial Minister said price distortions also affected the completion of houses for Tsholotsho flood victims and $1 million is needed to complete the project. He said he was hoping for better economic fortunes in 2019 as a lot of people were struggling for survival. “As a Government we have a lot of tasks to improve people’s lives especially addressing the issue of prices. The prices are too high and sometimes the price you find on shelves differs from one at the counter. And as Government these are things we need to address. We have to do more to protect our citizens as some of the prices are not justified as some businesses are bent on profiteering,” he said. — @nqotshili