The Chronicle Pamela Shumba/ Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporters
A TOTAL of 491 suspected looters have been arrested in Bulawayo as police continue the hunt for violent protestors who committed various crimes during demonstrations that were instigated by the opposition last week. Bulawayo provincial deputy spokesperson Inspector Abednico Ncube yesterday said the number of looters arrested had risen from 309 on Saturday to 491 yesterday. “We’ve arrested 491 looters and we’ll certainly arrest more as investigations continue. “We’re leaving no stone unturned as we hunt for every culprit who participated in this looting spree and violent protests. We’ll bring all of them to book so that they face the full wrath of the law,” said Insp Ncube. He added that the police would appreciate any piece of information that could help them arrest other suspects. Choppies Supermarkets in New Lobengula and Entumbane were burnt in the protests while the Pumula and Lobengula West branches were looted. Chicken Corner in Tshabalala was also targeted. There were also reports of looting from shops in Nkulumane, Lobengula, Pumula, Emganwini, Luveve, Magwegwe, Sizinda and other areas. Meanwhile, two suspects were also arrested in Inyathi, Bubi District, Matabeleland North in separate incidents linked to the looting that occurred in Bulawayo. Matabeleland North police spokesperson Chief Inspector Siphiwe Makonese said police in Inyathi intercepted one suspect at a roadblock that was mounted along the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road following the violent protests and looting across the country. “Mpikelelo Sibanda (23) of Njube suburb in Bulawayo, who was travelling to Nkayi by bus, was found with a mould board plough that he allegedly looted in one of the shops in Bulawayo during the looting spree. “Following this arrest, residents also notified police that a woman, Rachel Rambo Mhlanga, had since the past days been selling assorted alcohol at very cheap prices which made them suspect that she may have been selling looted products,” she said. Following the tip-off, police investigated the matter and recovered 20 x 200ml of Viceroy Brandy and a 750ml bottle of Mbarure Spirit from the suspect. Chief Insp Makonese said the woman was arrested and investigations into the matter were underway as the suspect is alleged to have sold most of the alcohol. She applauded members of the public for providing useful information to police which is leading to the arrest of the looters. – @pamelashumba1 -@winnie_masara