The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter
A Victoria Falls woman who allegedly fatally stabbed her live-in boyfriend with a kitchen knife following a domestic dispute has handed herself to the police. Molly Ncube (47) of Chinotimba suburb allegedly stabbed Ishmael Mangari (27) on November 24 last year and her victim succumbed to the stab wounds on December 27. Ncube went into hiding a few days before Mangari’s death and resurfaced last Thursday when she handed herself to police in Victoria Falls. She appeared before Victoria Falls magistrate Ms Rangarirai Gakanje last Friday to answer to a charge of murder. Ncube was not asked to plead to the charge and was remanded in custody to Friday this week. Prosecuting, Mr Onias Nyathi said Mangari and Ncube were lovers and were cohabiting when the incident occurred. “The two had an altercation over an undisclosed issue on November 24. The now deceased started assaulting the accused and in retaliation she is suspected to have used a kitchen knife to stab him on the right arm thereby rupturing an artery,” said the prosecutor. After stabbing Mangari, the court was told, Ncube left her boyfriend bleeding and rushed to the police where she reported a case of domestic violence against him. Mangari was rushed to Victoria Falls Hospital where he was admitted. He was discharged two days later after being treated without a police report. Hospital authorities advised him to go and file a report. Upon reaching the police station, Mangari was arrested and detained in police cells on November 26. He appeared in court on the same day to answer to a charge of physical abuse and was released on summons to reappear on December 3. In December Mangari reportedly visited the hospital four times as he continued to bleed. His fourth visit was after he reportedly collapsed at the immigration offices as his family was applying for a one-day pass to take him to Livingstone, Zambia for treatment as his condition was deteriorating. He was rushed to Victoria Falls Hospital and was transferred to Mpilo Central Hospital. He however died in an ambulance in Hwange on his way to Bulawayo. Police said Mangari did not disclose that he was stabbed. Murder investigations were opened after a postmortem showed that Mangari died of acute anemia and artery injury. — @ncubeleon.