The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
FIRE Prevention Zimbabwe (FPZ) in conjunction with the police yesterday launched a countrywide fire prevention awareness and education campaign meant to equip motorists with fire fighting skills this festive season. FPZ director responsible for the risk department Mr Reggies Sibanda and Bulawayo deputy provincial police spokesperson Inspector Abednico Ncube led the Bulawayo campaign and targeted highways leading into Bulawayo. Mr Sibanda said the campaign, which was targeting mostly public transport, was part of the FPZ’s efforts to prevent loss of lives through fires. “As we celebrate the festive season and prepare for the year 2019, we’re working with the police to educate our motorists on fire prevention techniques and how to evacuate vehicles in cases of fire. We’re telling the drivers the importance of carrying fire extinguishers in their vehicles and knowing how to use them,” said Mr Sibanda. He expressed concern that most of the drivers who were spoken to did not have fire extinguishers while some did not know how to use them. “This is depressing because we expect every vehicle to have a serviced fire extinguisher and the driver and conductor should know how to use it. I hope that this campaign will go a long way in making our drivers more responsible,” said Mr Sibanda. He said they were also emphasising to the drivers the importance of evacuating passengers once they suspect danger, instead of inspecting the vehicle while passengers are still on board. Insp Ncube said the campaign was an important exercise, which was also targeting passengers. “We’re in partnership with FPZ to conscientise drivers and members of the public on safety precautions in case they get involved in accidents. We’re stopping vehicles to talk to motorists, bus crews and passengers,” he said. “We’re calling on bus drivers and owners of buses to desist from the practice of replacing the emergency kick out panels with metal, which is not breakable in case of an accident,” said Insp Ncube. He said they were also encouraging drivers to be cautious all the time, carry serviced fire extinguishers and also install warning devices in their vehicles that give signals in case of danger. “We’re losing many lives through road carnage and most of these accidents are due to human error. Drivers should, therefore, always abide by the traffic rules and regulations. It’s important for drivers to travel during the day and leave for their destinations on time to avoid speeding. “Long distance drivers should avoid driving when they’re tired. They should rest and continue when they feel refreshed and safe to drive.
It’s best for transport operators to have two or three drivers assisting each other,” said Insp Ncube. He urged passengers to speak out when drivers drink, speed or flout other traffic rules and regulations. “When passengers pay bus fare for their journey, they are now the owners of that vehicle and they have a right to caution the driver for being on the wrong side or driving an unroadworthy vehicle. They have the power to control the drivers’ speed. “Drivers should also not listen to passengers who encourage them to speed or cross flooded rivers,” said Insp Ncube. – @pamelashumba1