The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
TWO mine workers have been arrested for stealing three tonnes of gold ore valued at $1 440 from their employer. Active Moyo (35) and Onias Ndlovu (47), who are both employed as general workers at Jonnie Mine in Gwanda, were supposed to appear in court for theft of gold ore last Friday for trial but they did not turn up. They were issued with a warrant of arrest by Gwanda magistrate, Mrs Nomagugu Sibanda. Prosecuting, Miss Ethel Mahachi said Moyo and Ndlovu stole the gold ore last year on December 23 at around 11PM. “On 23 December at around 11PM, Moyo and Ndlovu went to Jonnie Mine shafts and stole three tonnes of gold ore valued at $1 440. They took the gold ore to a road which is about 100 metres from the mine shaft. They were seen by the owner of the mine Ms Sifikile Landa who was conducting routine checks around the mine,” she said. “Upon seeing their employer, Moyo and Ndlovu fled into a bushy area and left the gold ore behind. Ms Landa reported the matter to the police resulting in the arrest of the pair.” In another incident, a 25-year-old mine worker has been jailed six months for unlawfully entering a house and stealing a cell phone. Terry Majani of Shurugwi who works at Handinya Mine in Gwanda was convicted on his own plea of guilty to unlawful entry and theft by Mrs Sibanda. He was sentenced to 10 months imprisonment of which four months were suspended on condition that he does not commit a similar offence within the next five years. Prosecuting, Miss Mahachi said Majani unlawfully entered Mr Lizwe Nyathi’s house in Jahunda Suburb in Gwanda on December 31 last year at around 10AM. “On 31 December Majani went to Mr Nyathi’s house and opened an unlocked door and gained entry. He took a Samsung J1 which was on a charger and went out of the house. “Mr Nyathi who had gone out, saw Majani coming out of his house as he was on his way back. He questioned Majani who told him that he was looking for a person who repairs refrigerators. Mr Nyathi upon entering his house realised that his cell phone was missing and pursued Majani. Mr Nyathi searched Majani and found his cell phone and reported the matter to the police. The cell phone is valued at $100,” he said.— @DubeMatutu