The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Vic Falls
REPRESENTATIVES of workers and employers in the tourism industry will next month engage in salary review negotiations for this year. The tourism industry workers are divided into three sectors based on the nature of business. The first sector involves workers from the non-consumptive sector dealing with most tourism activities while the second covers workers employed by those into hunting business. The third sector is that of workers employed by companies involved in conservation and agriculture. Last year, the tourism industry employers awarded workers a five percent basic salary increment which saw the lowest paid employee earning $128 per month excluding allowances. Over the years the negotiations have been protracted as parties failed to agree on a number of issues. There are various trade unions representing the tourism sector workers. Mr Beit Kholosa of the National Museums and Monuments, Travel Tourism, Game Parks and Wildlife Workers’ Union of Zimbabwe said workers’ representatives are supposed to adequately prepare for the meeting with employers. “We need to meet as different unions so that we go with a common position to the negotiations on February 18,” he said. Mr Kholosa would not be drawn into commenting further saying this will pre-empt issues to be tabled. Employers’ Association for Tourism and Safari Operators (EATSO) president Mr Clement Mukwasi said this year’s negotiations are unique because they are coming against a background of economic challenges fuelled by the parallel market. “We have set February 18 as the date for negotiations. This year’s negotiations will be different because of a number of reasons. The negotiations will consider issues such as inflation, poverty datum line, currency and outlook in the tourism business”. There are mixed fortunes in the tourism sector where some companies pay salaries in foreign currency while some use Real Time Gross Settlement system. The salaries also vary with regions where the companies operate from. Mr Mukwasi said there was no standard payment system with regards to salaries as employers make adhoc payments. Meanwhile, tourism service providers have ruled out possibilities of price increases for activities and accommodation despite the price madness triggered by the parallel market rates. Tour operators said maintaining the status quo will help create a good image of the country. Mr Clement Mukwasi said: “The industry is not increasing prices at the moment. The general price madness presently existing in the market is not affecting us much because our market is largely international. “What we are seeking are more tourists coming to Zimbabwe.” He called for collaboration by all citizens to market destination Zimbabwe as a brand. “We need collaboration between Government and the private sector to market Zimbabwe,”said Mr Mukwasi. About 90 percent of the tourism sector’s clients are international with the United States of America, Europe and Asia accounting for the bulk of the tourist arrivals.
The remaining 10 percent is covered by domestic tourists. Pricing of activities and packages were pegged either in foreign currency or local transfers depending on the client’s place of origin. — @ncubeleon