The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter
BULAWAYO model and host of ZBCtv’s new talk show Pink n’ Purple Princess Mpofu says she wants to expand her brand this year. Pink n’ Purple airs on ZBC TV every Wednesday at 7pm with repeats on Thursdays at 12pm. Mpofu (24), a journalism graduate from Nust who has contested at various beauty pageants, said she always dreamt of being on TV. “My career as a TV host started in 2015. I was a presenter for Onvi TV, we started an entertainment show on YouTube called the RunUp. My first time in front of the camera was everything I imagined and that is when I knew that I want to become a TV personality,” said Mpofu. Pink & Purple is a TV talk show by Onvi TV productions which premiered last year on ZBC TV. It is a talk show that is meant to share the inspirational stories of phenomenal women from around Zimbabwe and tackles issues such as music, film, sustainable fashion, poetry, relationships, public speaking, as well as leadership and politics. It is meant to be a platform solely for women in various sectors who have played influential roles in communities. So far the talk show has hosted gospel musicians Chelsea “Saved Diva” Mguni and Paula Paloma, fashion designers Nkanyenzi Malunga and Yolanda, plus size models Buhle and Noxy, singers Rudo Amor and Donna N and award winning poets Lady Tshawe and Tinashe Tafirenyika. Princess shared her experience while shooting Pink n’ Purple saying “This was the most amazing experience I had. I worked with great people like Mthabisi Onias, T1nda, Hanganani Nleya, Takudzwa Mandiringa, Renee Seckel, Daphne, Ntombiyomusa, Dumi Tshuma. They made the whole experience so much fun. I learnt a lot from my guests as well, I met different powerful women and I am so grateful.” “I loved all of my guests, they are different characters and each one of them brought their own unique vibe to the show. I enjoyed interviewing all of them.” Apart from TV hosting, Princes is a model and MC. Princess said she is looking to further her presenting career. “I’m looking to venture into commercial modelling so I will be working on that as well,” said Mpofu.