The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
PREMIERSHIP returnees Hwange FC have retained veteran players to maintain stability while assembling a youthful squad for the 2019 season. The coalminers, who returned to the Premiership after spending just one season in the unfashionable Southern Region Division One League, started their pre-season training on Monday. Veteran striker Gilbert Zulu, the 2018 Southern Region Division One Soccer Star of the Year and leading scorer, former national team defender Felix Chindungwe, defender Gerald Ndlovu and utility player Andrew Chuma have been retained and were among the players present on the first day of pre-season training . Former Chicken Inn attacking midfielder Canaan Nkomo is also one of the experienced players retained by the coalminers, although he was conspicuous by his absence at training. Nation Dube, the Hwange coach, is targeting unheralded players from the Southern Region Division One League to strengthen his squad. “Our hope is to conclude all player signings by Friday. We started our pre-season training on Monday and I’m amazed by the positive attitude of the players. We didn’t go for ‘big’ name players, but focused on Division One players where we were competing and saw abundant talent last season,” said Dube. “We do have experience in our team, meaning that area is covered and the kind of players we are recruiting are the young and full of energy that can give us balance. These are players who want to make their names in the topflight and market themselves, and I’m sure they won’t trouble us.” He revealed that he had brought on board a striker from First Division side Ciwu and a defender he only identified as Lucas from Victoria Falls-based Division One outfit Mosi Rovers. Hwange are also interested in the services of Bulawayo Chiefs’ striker Stanley Ngala. “It’s true that I spoke to Stanley Ngala and we are waiting for him to turn up. I can’t say much about him because he hasn’t reported for training or maybe he has had a change of heart. We are also waiting for Canaan Nkomo to report for duty. We’ve been trying to get hold of him and hopefully by tomorrow (today) we will know his status,” said Dube. — @ZililoR