The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
GARTHLY CHIPUKA has left Bulawayo Chiefs’ coaching job and is linked with the Zimbabwe team for the Southern Africa Regional Police Chiefs Co-operation Organisations Games (SARPCO Games). Chiefs finished the 2018 season in 12th place. Chipuka, who worked under Thulani Sibanda, led Chiefs to finish above Chapungu, who were 14th and Yadah (13th). With minimal resources, Chiefs managed to escape relegation, something well-resourced clubs like Mutare City and Bulawayo City bankrolled by their local municipalities failed to do. The other two teams relegated alongside Mutare City and Bulawayo City are Nichrut and Shabanie Mine. Chiefs, who started their pre-season training last week under Sibanda, confirmed Chipuka’s departure through a press statement. “Bulawayo Chiefs would like to let the football fraternity and the world at large know that coach Garthly Chipuka bids farewell to the club after serving the team so well. As mandated by the ambitious executive, Chipuka was brought in to ensure that the team survives relegation and he has since expressed that he feels he has achieved the objectives hence he felt the need to set his focus elsewhere. “We are greatly indebted to Chipuka for everything that he has done for the club and we will always cherish that he helped us achieve our maiden season’s objective. A mission well accomplished indeed,” reads the Chiefs’ statement. A source close to Chipuka said: “He has gone back to Harare and indicated to the club that he will be spending much time in the capital because of an assignment to coach the SARPCO team that will go into camp immediately after the Commissioner’s Games in April. The SARPCO Games are sometime in August and after noting that he won’t be available for the better part of the new season, he and the club decided to mutually end the relationship.” Besides losing Chipuka, Chiefs have lost influential players, who include defender Andrew Tandi, midfielders Graciuos Muleya and Perfect Chikwende as well as striker Stanley Ngala. — @ZililoR