The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
A MAN from Gwanda has been arrested for ganging up with his accomplices, who are still at large, to damage property at the Zanu-PF Matabeleland South provincial offices during last week’s violence and looting spree instigated by the opposition. Kukhanyakwenkosi Mkandla (34) of St Christopher Flats in Gwanda was not asked to plead when he appeared briefly before Gwanda magistrate, Mrs Nomagugu Sibanda, facing charges of public violence and malicious damage to property. Mkandla’s lawyer, Mr Melusi Dube of Dube, Mguni and Dube Legal Practitioners made an application before the court for his client to be remanded out of custody on his own cognisance. In his application Mr Dube said his client was not a flight risk and did not have a criminal record. Representing the State, Mr Blessing Gundani opposed the application saying Mkandla was likely to commit another offence if released considering the prevailing unrest in the country. ‘’We are not saying the court should order the accused person to be kept in custody forever but we are saying can he be held until the situation has normalised. The situation in the country at the moment is volatile as we have seen through violent incidences that have been recorded in some parts of the country. ‘’If accused person is remanded out of custody while the situation is still volatile he is likely to commit another offence or cause people to feel insecure,’’ he said.
Mrs Sibanda remanded Mkandla in custody to today for ruling on the matter. Mr Gundani said Mkandla, who is a self employed film maker and several others who are still at large, damaged windows at the Zanu-PF Matabeleland South provincial offices on January 17 at around 5PM. ‘’On 17 January at around 5PM, Mkandla teamed up with several others who are still at large. They went to the Zanu-PF provincial offices and started throwing stones. A security guard, Mrs Linatte Ncube, who was on duty at the Government Complex offices which are close to the Zanu-PF offices, saw the gang. ‘’She identified Mkandla whom she saw hurling stones that damaged some windows. She also saw him throw stones on the roof top. Ms Ncube informed Constable Tarisai Tom who was also stationed at the Government Complex offices. Constable Tom found Mkandla trying to uproot a sign post while his accomplices had fled the scene. “Cst Tom escorted Mkandla to the police station resulting in his arrest,” said Mr Gundani. He said four windows panes with a total value of $101 were damaged. — @DubeMatutu.