The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
MATABELELAND South Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Abednico Ncube has hailed the province for maintaining peace and calm in the face of opposition instigated terror attacks in some parts of the country. Addressing a press conference in Gwanda yesterday, Cde Ncube paid tribute to the security services for maintaining order. “I would like to thank the people of Matabeleland South Province for observing peace and remaining calm during the demonstrations and protests we have been experiencing as a country. While we received reports of violence, bloodshed and vandalism in other provinces which is quite disturbing, peace prevailed in our area. May you continue to uphold this peace as a province. “I would also like to thank our security forces for a sterling job they did to ensure peace prevailed. On the same note I would like to appeal to government workers, members of the business community, service providers and various institutions to return to work,” he said. Cde Ncube called for patience while the Government tries to address economic challenges facing the country. He said the President was aware of the challenges faced by the people and was working tirelessly to address them. “Government is aware of the challenges that people are facing and all we have to do is to be patient. Let’s give our Government time to address these challenges and let’s rally behind our President. He is working tirelessly and he is putting in place measures to revive the economy. I urge teachers to go back to work and allow children to attend school while Government is looking into their grievances. “Members of the business community should open their shops to the people who have been left stranded because of this situation, small scale miners and farmers, those who are self employed and everyone in this province is urged to go back to work,” he said. Cde Ncube described Matabeleland South as a peaceful province and warned outsiders who had intentions of fuelling violence to stay away. He said security forces were on standby to deal with rowdy gangs. The province joined other areas in the strike on Tuesday. Shops closed, pupils were turned back home and various government departments and institutions did not report for duty. However, by yesterday most shops had opened while various government departments and institutions had resumed operations. – @DubeMatutu