The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Acting Business Editor
ONE of the world’s top diamond producers, a Russian mining group, ALROSA, is set to launch operations in Zimbabwe with the support of the Government. On Monday, President Mnangagwa, who was in Moscow, Russia, announced the launch of the mining group’s operations in the country. In a statement, the diamond miner’s chief executive officer, Mr Sergey Ivanov, was quoted as saying: “Today we see opportunities for a new stage of our partnership. We are ready to develop new joint projects for diamond exploration and extraction. “We also seek to support Zimbabwe in the development of its diamond-mining industry in line with industry’s best practices. “We are happy to share with our partners a wealth of experience in the field of mineral exploration and diamond mining, including the industry self-regulation and responsible business.” Most of Zimbabwe’s diamond fields were in Marange in the Eastern Highlands where production was dominated by the Zimbabwe Consolidated Diamond Company, a State-owned firm. The Russian mining group said it was setting up operations in Zimbabwe following negotiations it held with the Government last year. “This company will implement projects for exploration and mining operations with a view to establishing joint diamond and other ore mining enterprises. “In this regard, ALROSA (Zimbabwe) Limited was established on December 6, 2018 in Harare. Within the next month, ALROSA’s experts, including geologists and mining engineers, will arrive in the country to start the operations.” ALROSA accounts for 27 percent of global rough diamond production in terms of carats. The company operates 11 kimberlite pipes and 16 alluvial deposits in Yakutia and Arkhangelsk Region of Russia. The company is also a leader in terms of social responsibility, spending $150-200 millon a year for social projects and $100 million for the environment. Besides rough diamond mining, ALROSA has its own in-house cutting and polishing division, Diamonds ALROSA. — @okazunga