The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE Zifa Southern Region Division One League has proposed March 30 as the date for the 2019 season kick-off. The Southern Region, which comprises teams from Bulawayo Metropolitan and Matabeleland North Provinces, welcome Bulawayo City from the Premiership to the 18-team league after relegating NRZ Leopards and ZRP Bulawayo Province last season. As a build-up to the start of the season, Zifa Southern Region administrator Augustine Ndlovu said they had sent out affiliation invoices to all the clubs, which they hope will be paid by February 25 when the league holds its annual general meeting. “Planning for the year has already started and on January 10 we sent out invoices for affiliation to all the teams. “The affiliation fees remain unchanged, with newly promoted clubs paying $2 500, while old teams pay $2 000, which does not include players as well as technical team registration. The registration for each player is $20, meaning that for a squad of 25 players, a team pays $500 and for the five technical team members its $250,” said Ndlovu. “We sent out the invoices early so that teams that owe the region have enough time to clear the balances and pay affiliation fees before the AGM, which will be held at Bulawayo’s Homestead Conference Centre on February 25. “We hope all the 18 clubs would have paid affiliation fees by deadline day so that they are allowed to attend the AGM,” he said. The league has four newly promoted teams, Ajax Hotspurs and Arenel from Bulawayo, as well as Nengasha Stars and Binga Pirates from the Matabeleland North Division Two League. Other teams that make up the 18-team league are the ex-Premiership pair of Bulawayo City and Tsholotsho, Talen Vision, ZPC Hwange, Makomo, army sides Indlovu Iyanyathela and Moto Moto, CIWU, Bosso 90, Zim Leopards, Casmyn, Mosi Rovers of Victoria Falls, Mainline FC from Plumtree and Toronto from Pumula East. In line with the Fifa/Caf Club Licensing tenets, the Zifa Southern Region will hold a seminar for all club secretaries to cover the competition rules as well as online player registration known as the Transfer Matching System (TMS). “We will have an induction workshop for the league’s newcomers on February 8 and also meet all club secretaries to teach them online player registration. They (club secretaries) have to bring their laptops for use because we will not accept any manual registration,” said Ndlovu. – @ZililoR