The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE country’s football motherbody, Zifa, has apologised for the chaos that occurred at the gates during the high profile Caf Champions League match between FC Platinum and Orlando Pirates at Barbourfields Stadium on Saturday. The encounter drew a capacity crowd and some invited guests, who included the Zifa vice-president Gift Banda, former national team striker Benjani Mwaruwari, Warriors manager Wellington M’pandare, business executives invited by the hosts FC Platinum and accredited journalists had a torrid time to gain entrance into the stadium. Some of the VVIP and VIP guests who were in possession of complimentary tickets were turned away or watched the last quarter of the second half. In a statement issued yesterday, Zifa apologised for the inconvenience and encouraged fans to come early for the games to avoid being turned away. “The association is mindful of skirmishes which obtained at some entry points and this delayed entrance for a lot of fans. We sincerely apologise to all those who were inconvenienced. “We vow to continue to improve in our match organisation processes. At the same time, we also appeal to all stakeholders to note that it is vital to come to the stadium early to avoid disappointment,” reads the Zifa statement. Zifa also thanked the 23 164 people who paid their way into the stadium. “The Zimbabwe Football Association extends heartfelt gratitude to supporters for coming to Barbourfields Stadium in large numbers to watch the FC Platinum and Orlando Pirates Total Champions League fixture on Saturday. “It was a memorable match with a full capacity attendance. “It is important though to note that as representatives of Zimbabwean football on the continent, FC Platinum have done exceptionally well, and they deserve Zimbabwe’s support. “Thank you to FC Platinum sponsors, executive, technical staff and players for giving Zimbabwe such an unforgettable experience. “Once again thank you to the supporters for filling up Barbourfields.” Zifa said they were disappointed with the few rogue elements who almost spoiled a beautiful day of football by throwing objects into the field of play. “It is unfortunate that despite repeated calls against hooliganism and violence, some supporters pelted a match official towards the end of the match. We would like to reiterate that such banditry has no place in football, and that we will continue to work with security service providers to keep such elements away from our stadia,” said Zifa. — @ZililoR