The Chronicle Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter
TSHOLOTSHO Rural District Council Chief Executive Officer, Mr Themba Moyo, has been suspended for the second time, without pay, pending further investigations into allegations of fraud and misconduct. Following an audit instituted by Government last year November, the RDC failed to account for more than $881 000 in council funds. This led to his first suspension and arrest. The matter is still in the courts. Tsholotsho RDC chairperson, Mr Esau Siwela, confirmed Mr Moyo’s suspension. “I can confirm that Mr Moyo has been relieved, for the second time from his CEO duties until further notice as there were serious allegations against him of abuse of office, fraud and theft of council funds which were unearthed by a commission of inquiry which was set after an audit done in March,” he said. Mr Siwela said a letter of suspension was handed to Mr Moyo on Friday last week. The letter outlined 33 counts of gross misconduct and misappropriation of funds. Some of the accusations against Mr Moyo are that he caused a bank account in the name of Tsholotsho RDC Stadium to be opened at CBZ without obtaining a council resolution and the account had signatories who were not employees of Tsholotsho RDC in violation of standing rules and regulations governing public funds or accounts. “It is alleged that you misused the Tsholotsho RDC Stadium funds, in that the funds that were raised through the sale of elephants were not used for the intended purpose, as you prioritised recurrent consumptive expenditure ahead of capital development in violation of section 121(7) of the Rural District Councils Act Chapter 29: 13,” reads part of the suspension letter. “Conduct inconsistent with your express or implied conditions of your employment: It is alleged that you failed to ensure that there was a tender record keeping book at Tsholotsho Rural District Council (TRDC) contrary to the Procurement regulations you failed to ensure that there was procurement paper trail in place at TRDC, contrary to procurement regulations.” The letter revealed that Mr Moyo failed to acquit US$260 000 of the US$283 000 availed for the Tsholotsho RDC stadium account as the stadium funds were spent without an approved budget in violation of sections 121(7) of the Rural District Councils Act. It is alleged that Mr Moyo failed to ensure that there was observance of a quorum system in any tendering process. “You caused payments to be made to the following people without any supporting documents; to yourself, other people and other entities from the TRDC Stadium account. Alternatively, you were grossly inefficient in failing to ensure that proper vouchers and requisitions were done to support such an expenditure,” reads part of the suspension letter. “It is alleged that you failed to inform your employer about a Zimdef deposit which was made into your employer’s account amounting to $354 962-00. “Alternatively, you failed to obtain a proper council resolution pertaining to the usage of the Zimdef deposit. Further as CEO you failed to account and acquit for $37 383.30from the total Zimdef amount.” It said Mr Moyo failed as the CEO to ensure that proper human resources information systems pertaining to staff in terms of salary arrears owed to each employee, their qualifications management of leave-days and pension contributions were maintained. The suspension letter accused him of failing to create and maintain an asset register for assets that belong to council contrary to the provisions of section 120(3) of the Rural District Councils Act. “Gross inefficiency: It is suspected that you failed to ensure that council resolutions are complied with such as the 28th of September 2012 Resolutions pertaining to T and S advance payments contrary to standing council policies and regulations,” the suspension letter says. “Further you failed to keep minutes to justify T and S payments to Patrick H Ngwenya. The T and S amounts to $9 765 as required by council policies and regulations.” The suspension follows two other suspensions of Ward 16 and 20 councillors Mr Patrick Ngwenya and Mr Gideon Ndlovu for allegedly being allies with Mr Moyo. Mr Ngwenya is suspected of misappropriation of council funds by failing to acquit $9 765 in transport and subsistence allowances. Mr Ndlovu is accused of being a signatory to an account holding council funds without authority. An amount of $330 000 was recklessly spent without following procedure. – @esinathy_essira