The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa has condemned the violence and destruction of property during protests last week saying while the people have the right to express themselves, they should do so in a peaceful manner. The opposition Movement for Democratic Change and its affiliate organisations last week led violent protests with their members looting and burning property resulting in the death of six people, one of them a policeman. The President said acts of violence and misconduct by anyone will not be tolerated. In a statement on his Twitter page, President Mnangagwa also castigated cases of violence and misconduct by some members of the security forces saying their actions were a betrayal to a new Zimbabwe. “One week ago, I announced measures to stabilise our nation’s crucial fuel supply. I was aware that these measures may not be popular, and this was not a decision we took lightly. But it was the right thing to do. What followed was regrettable and tragic. Everyone has the right to protest, but this was not a peaceful protest. Wanton violence and cynical destruction; looting police stations, stealing guns and uniforms; incitement and threats of violence. This is not the Zimbabwean way,” said President Mnangagwa. “Likewise, violence or misconduct by our security forces is unacceptable and a betrayal of the new Zimbabwe. Chaos and insubordination will not be tolerated. Misconduct will be investigated. If required, heads will roll.” The President called for concerted efforts towards the revival of the country’s economy. I invite leaders of all political parties as well as religious and civil leaders to set aside our differences and come together. What unites us is stronger than what could ever divide us. Let’s begin a national dialogue. Let’s put the economy first. Let’s put the people first,” he said. Property worth millions of dollars was destroyed, scores of people were injured while six lost their lives during the violent protests. The violent mobs also looted shops, destroyed property and burnt vehicles as they rolled out their violent campaign that also targeted the police. Close to 500 suspected looters have been arrested in Bulawayo as police intensify the hunt for the violent protesters. Police have also recovered a number of the looted goods, which include groceries and household goods worth millions of dollars. In a joint Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) and Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) Press conference last weekend, ZDF director of public relations Colonel Overson Mugwisi said law enforcement agents were ready to apply the law “without fear or favour”. Meanwhile President Mnangagwa returned on Monday night from a successful four-nation tour of Eurasia that resulted in the signing of a raft of economic agreements as well as laying the foundation for co-operation with new partners from the region. On arrival, the President said he was happy that the country was now peaceful following a few days of opposition-led violence that resulted in loss of lives, injury and damage to property. The opposition has on several occasions said it will make the country ungovernable so as to topple the legitimately-elected Government or force it into a power-sharing agreement. On returning from Russia, Belarus, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan late on Monday night, President Mnangagwa said: “I will be fully briefed … on what was happening. I am happy that the country is quiet. “Our people must concentrate on doing their work. The thrust is economic development; we must grow our economy. We want peace, we want unity among our people. There are channels for complaints if anyone has any complaints. This is the spirit and culture that we want as Zimbabweans to be developed.” — @pamelashumba1.