The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
EMAKHANDENI Tennis Club chairman Witness Jiyane says they will ensure players get game time as early as next month by organising various tournaments to promote competitiveness throughout the year. Emakhandeni Tennis Club started the process of reviving the legendary club late last year in a bid to produce professional players as in yesteryear and prepare them for international competitions. “One of our main objectives this year is to organise tournaments to keep our players active. “We’ll invite players from all parts of the country to participate in the tournaments in order to make them more competitive,” said Jiyane. The club has been getting assistance in the form of racquets and balls from two organisations, Tennis Aid Spain and National Tennis Development (NTD) Global, as well as from a number of individuals. “We want to make use of the help we’re getting from Spain and NTD by ensuring that our club works to its fullest force. “The club is on the right track to once again produce high profile players by the end of this year in all age groups,” he said. Last week, Jiyane conducted a two-day free coaching session and donated some tennis balls to Gwanda Tennis Academy at Gwanda High School where 40 kids from surrounding areas participated. Meanwhile, Tomasik Tennis Club will be hosting two Swiss-based coaches Fadzai Madzimbamuto and Frau Michelle Aslaksen on February 9 at Emakhandeni Tennis Club. Tomasik Tennis Club head coach Khumbulani Tembo said the coaches from Switzerland will impart skills to local coaches and players, and hopes that it will play a bigger role in promoting tennis in the city. “Madzimbamuto is the founder of the club and will bring another coach from Switzerland to help her in conducting the training session. “The session will start with players from all age groups before meeting local tennis coaches,” said Tembo. Tomasik Tennis Club has produced the likes of Felix Tazvivinga and Martin Nyoni, who represented Zimbabwe at the Cossasa games in Namibia. — @DecoDecent2