The Chronicle Tadious Manyepo, Harare Bureau
NGEZI Platinum Stars have commenced pre-season preparations in the absence of their new coach Erol Akbay who is yet to arrive in the country from The Netherlands. He experienced logistical delays related to the issuance of his work permit. The Dutch mentor was appointed in December last year following the sacking of Tonderai Ndiraya towards the end of the season. Clifton Kadurira, who was Ndiraya’s assistant, carried the torch on an interim basis for the remainder of the season. Kadurira was replaced by veteran coach Cosmas “Tsano” Zulu while Tendai Chikuni also came into the backroom staff. The two were expected to lead the team in their first pre-season training session at Baobab yesterday. Akbay is still in the Netherlands and will only arrive in the country next week. Initially, the Dutch coach was expected in the country last week but some challenges delayed his arrival. The team’s chief executive Nyasha Kadenge said Ngezi will begin their pre-season preparations without the Dutchman. “We are beginning our pre-season preparations today (yesterday) under the watchful eyes of the assistant coaches (Chikuni and Zulu). “Head coach Erol (Akbay) is still in the Netherlands. We have decided to book him to fly in next week, nonetheless the pre-season preparations will be on course. “All his papers are in place, including the work permit. We are in touch with him and if all goes according to schedule, the coach will be in the country by Monday next week.” Kadenge said her team will be fighting for the honours this season. She said everything was well at the club despite reports linking most of their star players with several teams in the top-flight league. Midfielder Walter Mukanga and forceful forward Clive Augusto have joined Harare City and Chicken Inn after the expiry of their contracts on December 31, last year. But Kadenge said it is the club rather than the players which decided against renewing the duo’s contracts. She said only utility player Godknows Murwira had a running contract when he was snatched by FC Platinum. Tichaona Mabvura, Xolisani Moyo, Donovan Benard, Donald Teguru as well as Ghanaian striker Stephen Owusu are all still with the club. There are other five high-profile players at the team who will be signed as soon as Akbay approves them, according to Kadenge. “All is well at the team. We have lost just one player, Godknows Murwira, to FC Platinum but then we also have some good replacements we have roped in. “There is nothing like a player exodus at Ngezi Platinum Stars. “We have just been keeping a low profile but we are definitely up and raring to go.”