The Chronicle Stanford Chiwanga
PARIS-BASED Otherways Management Association Club (OMAC) has nominated Sai Enterprises for one of its major international awards. OMAC holds international business awards annually and was founded in 1996. Sai Enterprises, owned by Mr Raj Modi, one of Bulawayo’s successful businessmen, has been named a finalist in the International Achievement Award for quality and business excellence. The awards ceremony will take place in Lisbon, Portugal at the Intercontinental Hotel on 11 February. Mr Modi will join businessmen and women from more than 25 countries from across the globe. Mr Charbel Tabet, chief executive officer of OMAC, said in a letter addressed to the Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce that Sai Enterprises has been nominated after the OMAC research team looked at the company’s success in 2018. “In the case of your organisation there was no self-nomination, but the research team recommended your organisation to the selection committee and this is known as ‘OMAC Nomination’. This international award is a great opportunity for your organisation to be recognised at an international forum where commercial relations can be established. OMAC gives you the occasion to join us on our new convention to be held on 10 and 11 February 2019 in Lisbon, Portugal, where companies from five continents will attend and receive awards,” said Mr Tabet. “Sai Enterprises will be among the winners because it has shown firm commitment to quality and outstanding achievements. This makes Otherways of the most prominent voices of quality and culture. Otherways has proven for two decades to be an effective way to bring professionals together around real opportunities to do business, discover jobs and develop relationships. You will get an opportunity to meet and connect with business people from different sectors across the globe.” Meanwhile, Mr Modi said he will not go to Portugal just to receive an award on behalf of his company, but will use the awards ceremony to lure investors to Zimbabwe. “At Sai Enterprises we are obviously delighted to be nominated for an international award. It shows that we are doing something right. However, I will not only go there as the owner of Sai Enterprises, I am going there as a Zimbabwean and as the Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce. Before the convention, during the convention and after the convention I will exploit every opportunity to market Zimbabwe. The message that Zimbabwe is open for business must be preached in every corner of the globe. We want investors to come and invest in Zimbabwe, the days of isolation are over and the world must be told,” said Mr Modi.