The Chronicle Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent
Local authorities in Masvingo have been challenged to expedite the processing of investment applications to accelerate socio-economic growth in the province. The clarion call comes after reports that Mwenezi Rural District has been sitting on a multi-million dollar proposal by South African investor’s for over two months. It is reported that in October last year, a South African investor, Mr Lourensma Botha, toured Manyuchi Dam and identified investment opportunities in cattle ranching and tourism around the water body. After which he tabled an investment proposal to Mwenezi RDC under whose jurisdiction the dam falls, for approval, but nothing has been done to date. This, he said, was scuttling efforts to achieve the provincial Gross Domestic Product target of $5,2 billion by 2023. A director in the Minister of State for Provincial Affairs (Cde Ezra Chadzamira’s) office Mr Kudakwashe Machako said the province had approved a number of foreign direct investment initiatives, but some local authorities were taking long to approve applications and challenged them to take investment seriously. “We received a number of investment inquiries concerning solar plant projects, mini hydro-electricity and cattle ranching. However, it seems some local authorities are not moving with much expected speed in processing investors’ applications,” said Mr Machako. He said the province was open for business and that investors were free to visit the area to exploit opportunities in mining, fisheries, tourism, and agriculture and wildlife management, in partnership with the local authorities. “The office of the Minister of State for provincial affairs supports all initiatives that local authorities put forward to attract investment,” said Mr Machako. “We, therefore, invite investors to come to our province and partner with the local authorities in mining, tourism, animal conservancy, among other opportunities found in Masvingo province. “There is a South African investor who has applied to do ranching and tourism projects around Manyuchi Dam in Mwenezi West in partnership with Mwenezi RDC, but his papers have not been approved, three months down the line. “That is not good and we urge the leadership at the local authority to make sure that they conclude the agreement, as a matter of urgency.” Mr Machako said Government was working hard to improve the road network system in Masvingo’s seven districts as a way to lure investment.