The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
A 10-YEAR-OLD Bulawayo tennis player Kudzai Chapepa has qualified for the semi-finals of the Under-12 Belgrave Junior Tournament held in Groenkloof, Pretoria, South Africa after thumping the host nation’s Hannah Crafford 6-0; 6-1. The young gem who trains with GC Tennis Centre at the Bulawayo Athletic Club (BAC) is a pupil at Carmel Primary School. Her coach, Thesly Mafunda told Chronicle Sports that the Zimbabwean ace will face South Africa’s Vanessa Foley in the semi-final. “I’ve been surprised by the way Chapepa has fared here in Pretoria. We weren’t expecting her to perform so well away from home but it’s something we have been working on. At home she has been dominating with the latest victory coming in Harare where she won the New Winners Tournament Under-12,” said Mafunda. Enroute to the semi-finals she thumped Joma Viljoen from Free State province 6-0; 6-0 and is tipped as the favourite to clinch the title. “We have been ensuring that she avoids complacency and focuses on what is at stake which is to go home with something. It is a good preparatory event for her after she has been selected to participate in the African Junior Championship in March but the host nation is yet to be confirmed,” Mafunda said. Chapepa was a bit nervous before the tournament but gained confidence as they settled in the South African capital. “The reality of playing against South African players intimidated her considering they would be getting all the support from their families but credit must also go to her parents who have been very supportive. Her parents have played an important role in her journey and with this kind of support, she will achieve her dream of playing in the global arena,” said Mafunda. Mafunda applauded Chapepa’s hard work and dedication and said her goal is to play professional and compete with the best from other countries. “These competitions will give her exposure and get an opportunity to compete with tennis players from other countries. In a nutshell, we’re now eyeing the title as she has shown how determined she is,” Mafunda said. — @DecoDecent2