The Chronicle Paris — Mohamed Salah became the leading English Premier League scorer this season after netting twice for Liverpool in a dramatic 4-3 triumph over Crystal Palace at the weekend. The Egyptian superstar has notched 16 goals, two more than Gabonese Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang of Arsenal and England sharpshooter Harry Kane of Tottenham Hotspur. It was a profitable day for African attackers at Anfield with Senegalese Sadio Mane also scoring for league leaders Livepool. England MOHAMED SALAH, SADIO MANE (Liverpool) Salah raised his season tally to 19 in all competitions by scoring twice to keep Liverpool four points clear at the top by defeating Palace. The Egyptian had fortune on his side thanks to some errant goalkeeping by 39-year Julian Speroni, making his first appearance in over a year, and was also lucky to escape without a yellow card when trying to win a cheap penalty just before half-time. Mane grabbed his 10th of the season with a smart finish in stoppage time. Spain SEYDOU DOUMBIA (Girona)
The Ivorian scored but could not prevent Girona losing a five-goal thriller to Real Betis in La Liga. Doumbia stooped low to head in after an error from goalkeeper Pau Lopez as Girona pulled 2-1 ahead, only for Betis to score twice in the second half.  KARL TOKO EKAMBI (Villarreal)
Toko Ekambi earned Villarreal a point by grabbing a late equaliser in their 1-1 draw at home to Athletic Bilbao. The Cameroonian slid in to score from close range with 19 minutes left to ensure his side avoided defeat in their fight against relegation. Italy
GERVINHO (Parma)
Gervinho earned a penalty and scored the winner for Parma in a 2-1 victory over Udinese. Parma were awarded a VAR penalty for a Rodrigo De Paul foul on Gervinho which Roberto Inglese converted after 11 minutes. The veteran Ivorian scored the winner after 68 minutes, surging forward for midfield to slot in his sixth goal of the season for promoted Parma, who are three points off the Europa League berths. Germany SALIF SANE (Schalke 04)
The Senegal centre-back put in a solid display in Schalke’s 2-1 win at home to Wolfsburg which pulled them clear of the Bundesliga relegation places with their Champions League last-16 tie against Manchester City looming next month. Sane was unable to stop Wolfsburg midfielder Elvis Rexhbecaj equalising midway through the first half before Schalke defender Daniel Caligiuri scored the late winner with his second goal of the game. France JORDAN IKOKO (Guingamp)
The Democratic Republic of Congo defender endured a day to forget as his side crashed to an embarrassing 9-0 loss to Paris Saint-Germain. Ikoko and his Guingamp team-mates were ripped apart by the runaway league leaders as Neymar, Kylian Mbappe and Edinson Cavani accounted for all but one of the goals as PSG set a new club record for the biggest home win. Leading scorers in the current 2018/19 English Premiership season: 16 – Mohamed Salah (Liverpool)
14 – Aubameyang (Arsenal), Kane (Tottenham)
10 – Hazard (Chelsea), Aguero (Man City), Sterling (Man City), Wilson (Bournemouth)
9 – Richarlison (Everton), Sterling (Man City), Mane (Liverpool), Roberto Firmino (Liverpool)
8 – Anderson (West Ham), Lukaku (Man Utd), Martial (Man Utd), Mitrovic (Fulham), Murray (Brighton), Sigurdsson (Everton), Son Heung-min (Tottenham), Pogba (Man Utd), Lacazette (Arsenal), Rashford (Man United)
7 – Arnautovic (West Ham), Ings (Southampton), Vardy (Leicester), Pedro (Chelsea), *As at 21/01/2018— AFP.