The Chronicle Blessings Chidakwa, Harare Bureau
A critical shortage of top dressing fertilisers in the formal market has hit Sanyati District, which is threatening the survival of the maize crop in the area. The commodity was only available on the informal market at between $50 and $70 for a 50kg bag which was beyond the reach of most farmers. Farmers in the district said they urgently needed the fertiliser now because the district was now receiving favourable rains. Some areas including Chegutu, Kadoma, Sanyati and Zvimba reportedly received an average of about 75mm, which the farmers believe was adequate to salvage their crops. Mr Albert Murove, a farmer from Martin Spur, yesterday said he was hopeful of a bumper harvest despite a false start to the rainy season. “I am still replanting after the first seeds failed to germinate due to moisture stress. However, the rainfall pattern over the past few days has been very good. We have been receiving an average 75 mm which is quite a heavy downpour. “The major challenge now is that crops require top dressing fertiliser urgently, but l am struggling to buy it because it is only available on the informal market at ridiculous prices.” Mr Murove said the distribution of inputs through Government schemes was still very slow. “I am benefitting from Government’s input scheme, but the distribution is slow so to avoid losses l have to buy fertiliser on my own which is quite a challenge at the moment. Government should speed up the distribution exercise,” he said. Another farmer from Sanyati said despite receiving adequate rains recently, the 2018/19 agricultural season might be bleak if farmers continue struggling to access fertilisers. “Government should be hailed for its efforts to continue and assist farmers through the Presidential Input Scheme and the Command Agriculture scheme but there are saboteurs hoarding fertiliser and reselling it at exorbitant prices on the parallel market,” he said. He also acknowledged the recovery of crops after the latest and improved rainfall patterns. “However, but due to exorbitant price of fertilisers on the parallel market, it will be very difficult for the farmers to produce a good crop,” he said. Mrs Charity Murondo from Mhondoro-Ngezi said Government should also investigate the source of top dressing fertilisers found on the informal market. “We are struggling as farmers because there is nothing in the shops but there is fertilisers awash on the streets whose prices are beyond the reach of many farmers,” she said. The Metrological Services Department has predicted normal to below normal rainfall during the current agricultural season due to El Nino phenomenon affecting the region. However, farmers are hopeful that the rains falling across the province could assist them to realise good harvests.