The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Acting Business Editor
HOSPITALITY concern, Ilala Lodge Hotel Group has started the construction of a $15 million hotel along the Zambezi River in Victoria Falls. In a statement, the group said the building of the four-star hotel whose completion is expected in June 2020, follows the groundbreaking ceremony that was held last week. “Ilala Lodge Hotel Group commenced construction of a new luxury hotel on the banks of the Zambezi River in Victoria Falls following a groundbreaking ceremony held last week. The four-star luxury hotel will be named the Palm River Lodge and marks a significant expansion to the Ilala Lodge Hotel Group,” it said. Guest of honour at the groundbreaking ceremony, Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Richard Moyo said: “Such expansion allows for the increased accommodation of various tourist activities which translates into an increase of our tourist arrivals. This project will also create jobs for our people in the resort town of Victoria Falls. It will also support industries like the transport sector, arts and music industry.” The group’s chief executive officer Mr Jim Brown said the new project was set to boost tourism in the resort town. “Given the continued growth of Victoria Falls as one of the premier tourist destinations in Africa, we feel there is room in the market to offer another high-quality, luxury hotel for the discerning traveller,” he said. It is envisaged that the idyllic location of the Palm River Lodge would offer an unmatched panoramic view of the renowned Zambezi River, just a short distance from the Mighty Victoria Falls waterfall. The group said guests staying at the hotel would experience the tranquil riverside location due to its beautiful landscapes and the wildlife that roams within. “The Palm River Lodge takes inspiration from a rich local history of Victoria Falls town as illustrated in its high ceilings, spacious verandas and iconic Queenslander style architecture. It will cover a total floor space of approximately 8 000 square metres. “Inside reflects a modern, natural and stylish elegance, with 73 generously-sized deluxe guest rooms, a luxurious presidential suite, two honeymoon suites and two private villas. The Palm River Lodge will also offer a relaxing spa, state-of-the-art gym facilities and an outdoor swimming pool. It is also hoped that the hotel would present two unique dining experiences including indoor á la carte fine-dining and outdoor dining on the banks of the Zambezi River. — @okazunga