The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
SOLDIERS should remain focused on their main task of supporting various Government programmes so that the 2030 vision of an upper middle income economy can be realised, the commander of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces has said. In his 2019 New Year message, General Philip Valerio Sibanda said the army plays a pivotal role in economic development and peace building. “So as l thank you for your support for the various and multifaceted tasks that we have achieved together in 2018, l also want you to remain focused on our main task of economic building, maintaining a peaceful and stable Zimbabwe so that vision 2030 is achieved,” he said. He said the ZDF must be prepared to play a major part in facilitating and supporting various Government programmes aimed at achieving the vision while at the same time remaining alive to regional and international obligations. Gen Sibanda said development relies on the degree of peace and stability of a nation which is spearheaded by the army. He said soldiers should enhance their knowledge and skills base to be able to better defend the nation and to generate positive energies needed to motivate others. “As we enter 2019, I want each and every one of us to rededicate ourselves to our honourable profession of arms by enhancing our knowledge and skills. Faith is taking the first step, even when you don’t see the whole staircase as was said by Martin Luther King Junior,” said Gen Sibanda. He commended the ZDF members for their commitment to ensuring that the nation’s development programmes succeed. “Our officers, men and women of the ZDF were equal participants in doing all possible to maintain and promote a peaceful and stable Zimbabwe. This was despite the spirited efforts of our detractors to manipulate the military in doing ‘their bidding’ for their selfish ends,” said Gen Sibanda. The commander said the army should not lose focus because of the economic challenges facing the country because they are a ‘passing phase’. “You all know as l do, that the current challenges are not good enough reason to lose focus and be ‘taken in’ by prophets of doom who have since independence in 1980 prophesied doom of one sort or another for our country,” he said. Gen Sibanda commended the nation for maintaining peace and unity of purpose despite the prevailing economic challenges. “As the year is consigned to history and the year 2019 is ushered in, l want to take this opportunity to thank all peace loving Zimbabweans for remaining peaceful throughout the year and for working for the betterment of our country, in a rather difficult economic environment occasioned by challenges, forces and factors within and without our borders,” he said — @tamary98.