The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
THE Government has called on provinces to compile names of vulnerable families that are failing to secure food so that they can be assisted. In an interview, the Deputy Minister of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare, Cde Lovemore Matuke, said his ministry has an allocation set aside for the vulnerable. “The Government has the main responsibility of ensuring that the vulnerable are taken care of by setting aside a certain amount to cater for their needs. It is the duty of different departments to bring such people to our attention so that they can be assisted,” he said. Deputy Minister Matuke bemoaned the involvement of juveniles in crime saying poverty may be a contributing factor to their behaviour. “It is worrisome that minors are now the main culprits. Some are on record stealing food stuffs and stationery and that needs attention. Whether they are forced by parents, guardians or whoever is an influence, we do not condone such behaviour. If they are caused by socio-economic hardships, Government is always ready to assist such people,” he said. Deputy Minister Matuke said assisting families may help reduce crime ‘if the crimes are genuinely caused by socio-economic constraints’. He urged parents and guardians to discipline their children saying poverty does not justify breaking the law as offenders are brought to book. “No matter how you are struggling, it does not put you above the law. Though we look forward to assisting vulnerable children, these children will be disciplined as per the law,” the Deputy Minister said. He said looting costs the nation’s economy and individuals’ businesses as well as exposing children to moral decay at a tender age. “We are talking about millions of dollars lost through these lootings and surely this cannot be justified. Besides that, these children will grow up with a criminal mindset which is not good. Society sympathises more with a beggar than a criminal,” said Deputy Minister Matuke. – @tamary98