The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
JAH Signal and Jah Prayzah have been included on the list of performers at the inaugural Star FM Music Awards tomorrow with the ceremony set to pay tribute to the late music icon Oliver Mtukudzi. Following the death of Tuku last week Wednesday, the Star FM Music Awards which were scheduled for the Friday had to be moved by a week as the nation was mourning the national hero. Now that Tuku has been buried the Star FM Music Awards are back on at Zimbali Gardens and Lifestyle Centre in Harare. The event will be broadcast live on the Star FM Facebook page from 7PM. According to Zandile “Zaza” Ndlovu, the Star FM Awards manager, all was set for the ceremony with Jah Prayzah and Jah Signal being on the line up of performers. They shall join Mr Putiti ExQ, AEIOU hit maker Novuyo Seagirl, Asaph behind the hit song Mambo, Ammara Brown, Kanjiva hit maker Enzo Ishall, Tamy Moyo and Gospel musician Mkhululi Bhebhe who are all nominated in the 21 categories. “All is set for the awards as the prizes are here, the presenters are here and the performers have been rehearsing. Jah Prayzah and Jah Signal have been added to the already star-studded line up of performers who’ll grace the stage on the night,” said Zaza. She said the awards will also pay tribute to Tuku through a song and videos of the times that he visited Star FM radio station studios and Tuku will be given a Special Honour Award posthumously. “There’s a tribute video of his life and his life in music. For those who know he would visit Star FM radio station regularly. He would be interviewed on various shows by Star FM presenters. We have videos of those times in the studio and we shall show some. Also we shall have a tribute performance that will be done by various artistes during the night. After that the family will be invited on stage to receive a Special Honour Award for Mtukudzi,” said Zaza. She said the Lifetime Achievement award will be awarded to the late Chiwoniso Maraire. The Star FM Music Awards are sponsored by Jan-Jam Men’s Wear, Impala Car Rental and Club Sankayi where the after-party will be held.