The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
BULAWAYO City FC have retained most senior players as they seek to challenge for the Zifa Southern Region Division One League title and make a quick return to the Premier Soccer League. The municipal club was relegated from the topflight at the end of the 2018 season after three years in the Premiership. Jerry Sibanda, the City chairman, said his side’s squad will comprise a mixture of experienced and young players. “Our preparations for the 2019 season have started. Contracts negotiations with senior players are underway. Interim head coach Try Ncube has indicated that he wants 10 senior players retained and they will play alongside youngsters promoted from our junior ranks or scouted during trials. We want these juniors to have gained experience when we’re promoted,” said Sibanda. Skipper Zibusiso Sibanda, former national team defender Zephaniah Ngodzo, utility player Crispen Ncube, ex-Highlanders defender Benson Phiri, utility player Humphrey Muchichwa Ncube, attacking midfielder Lucky Nyathi and goalkeeper Kelvin Nyoni are expected to form City’s backbone. City finished eighth in their maiden Premiership season in 2016 and only just survived relegation in 2017 when they finished 14th before eventually getting the chop last year. The team is set to hold trials for junior players tomorrow at Mzilikazi Primary School, while first team trials will be conducted on Monday at St Columba’s High School. City development coach Bruce Tshuma will be in charge of the Under-13 trials, Innocent Mapuranga will oversee the Under-15s, while renowned juniors’ gaffer Ali Baba Dube and Johannes Ngodzo will conduct trials for the Under-18s and Under-20s. The first team’s goalkeepers’ trainer Julius Ndlovu and former AmaZulu defender Golding Dube, who had a coaching stint in Swaziland and assisted Bekithemba Ndlovu at City last season, will assist with the trials. Ncube and technical advisor Barry Daka will also attend the trials. — @ZililoR