The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) says the country’s tourist arrivals in the nine months to September 2018 increased four percent to 1,8 million from 1,7 million in the corresponding period the previous year. ZTA head of corporate affairs Mr Godfrey Koti attributed the growth in tourist arrivals to positive perception of the country by the international community. “The country last year saw an increase in tourist arrivals of about four percent which translated to a six percent increase in hotel occupancies across the country. “During the period, national hotel occupancy shot up to 53 percent from 47 percent with Beitbridge recording the highest occupancy movement at 21percent followed by Hwange which recorded a one percent change from the 22 percent recorded in 2017,” he said. Mr Koti said his organisation was working closely with the Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira to develop products suitable for diverse markets. “We have been making international engagements as ZTA led by the Minister (Mupfumira). As a result, we were slated as number three on the must-visit country in 2019 by Lonely Planet travel guide. “Above us were Sri Lanka and Germany. We were also in the top 10 list on the Telegraph,” he said. Mr Koti said international engagement programmes assisted in the increase of tourism inflows. “We went to Spain in January and to Asia in the Middle East with the Minister directly as the tourism authority. “We were focusing our engagements around openness of business in the country.” He said Victoria Falls and Bulawayo recorded a five percent positive change while Harare was at 10 percent. The engagements which ZTA began early last year with trips to Spain, Asia and the Middle East saw Asia emerging as the top tourism source with a 25 percent increase to 79 858 from 63 744. However, there was an 18 percent decline on tourists from the Middle East closing the period at 4 479 from 5 448 visitors, while a marginal two percent increase was recorded for Africa. Minister Mupfumira has noted that while the performace of the tourism industry was showing signs of growth, there was a need for a downward review of the sector’s products’ price in order to enhance competitiveness and increase volumes. Lowering tourism packages pricing has to be buttressed by aggressive domestic tourism campaigns that among others, include tailor-made packages for special groups such as schoolchildren and middle income earners such as civil servants. The country boasts of a diverse natural and historical tourism heritage attraction sites. — @queentauruszw