The Chronicle Munyaradzi Musiiwa, Midlands Correspondent
THE Midlands Civil Protection Unit (CPU) has dispatched an investigation team led by the Environmental Management Agency (EMA) to inspect Mnene Mission’s sewer disposal system amid revelations that it could be the source of the cholera outbreak in Mberengwa. Mnene Mission had earlier been fingered as the possible source of a cholera outbreak that recently hit Chomubobo resettlement area in Mberengwa after samples taken from the river which is the main water source for people in the area was discovered to be contaminated. It is suspected that raw sewage from Mnene Mission might have flowed into Mnene River and contaminated water and affected the people living downstream.
Mnene Mission is in a high lying area from where the river flows. Midlands Provincial Administrator, Mr Abion Maronge said the province had set a taskforce led by EMA and would investigate Mnene Mission over the allegations as it moves to establish the source of the waterborne disease. “There has been a debate on whether Mnene Mission was the source of the cholera outbreak or not. I understand this is the first time that Mberengwa has had a cholera outbreak. People have just been speculating but we want to know the source of cholera. “There were reports that Mnene Mission could be the source because it was said that their sewer disposal systems were not fully functional. However we cannot conclude if we do not investigate the matter. So a team led by EMA will lead in the investigations so that we see if Mnene Mission is actually the source of cholera,” he said. Mr Maronge said samples taken from the river which flows from Mnene showed that the water was contaminated and was the source of cholera. Midlands Provincial Medical Director, Dr Simon Nyadundu however insisted that Mnene Mission might not be source considering the distance between Chomubobo and Mnene. “Scientifically it cannot be. However, we will wait for the results or outcome of the investigations,” he said.