The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS FC have extended the deadline for submitting nomination papers for executive committee positions up for grabs at the club’s elections on February 3. Nominations for the club’s vice-chairman and treasurer posts were supposed to close today, but have now been extended by a week. Nhlanhla Dube, the Highlanders chief executive officer, said the electoral committee had pushed the submission deadline to Saturday, January 26. “Consideration has been made regarding the closure of nominations in the circumstances that disabled the administrative office from functioning in the last few days. It has been seen as prudent to afford those who want to contest enough time to collect their forms. The deadline for submission of nominations has been moved to midday next Saturday,” said Dube. He could not be drawn into commenting on whether the electoral college would also move the date for the elections. For one to collect a nomination form, a fee of $200 is paid and is refundable if the candidate gets at least 10 percent of the total votes cast. Incumbent Highlanders’ vice-chairman Modern Ngwenya and treasurer Donald Ndebele are seeking re-election. City businessman Longwe Ndlovu is eyeing the vice chairman post. He is known as the man who facilitated the deal that brought striker Roderick Mutuma to Highlanders in 2017 after he pledged to add onto his signing on fees and supplement his salary. Mutuma, however, left Bosso midway into the 2017 season. While the vice-chairman’s post usually attracts a huge interest, there is little enthusiasm when it comes to the treasurer’s position. It is not clear whether Nicholas Nyathi or Methuseli Mafu, who were recommended for executive committee positions after failing to land board positions last year, will contest the elections. Mafu and Nyathi are viewed as “capable” leaders within the Highlanders’ family. At the club’s mid-year meeting in July 2018, members felt Mafu and Nyathi can add value to the executive. — @ZililoR