The Chronicle Mukudzei Chingwere, Midlands Bureau
REVERED former Warriors coach Callisto Pasuwa has said he is out of contract following the expiry of his deal with Malawian football giants, Nyasa Big Bullets, and is ready to listen to offers from anywhere including local scene and foreign. The success laden gaffer is the emblem of Zimbabwe’s coaching competence following his trailblazing stay at premiership heavyweights Dynamos with a virtually incomparable four league triumphs on the bounce. After his domination on the local premiership the 48-year-old went on to lead the Zimbabwe national senior soccer team to the 2017 AFCON finals played in Gabon, with the Warriors making a return to the competition after an 11 year absence amongst the continent’s big boys. On his return from Gabon he went on an almost two year sabbatical from management but returned last year on a short contract and led the Malawian side to another league title and the club is open to tie him to a long contract. He joined the record Malawian champions in October with the target of winning the league’s ultimate price and achieved it with a distinction after winning the title with games to spare, triggering the club to start negotiating new terms with the Zimbabwean trainer. However, many thought the gaffer was still contracted to Nyasa Big Bullets but in an exclusive interview with The Herald Sport the gaffer said that is not the case and is open to return to management even with local clubs. “I am currently not employed but I am looking forward to get another job if the right offer comes but at the moment like I have said I am not contracted to anyone. “My contract with them (Nyasa) ended last year and they have expressed interest in bringing me back but we are yet to agree on anything. “Given another chance I will go and coach in Malawi again but the offer just has to be right for me to take it. We are negotiating with them but nothing has materialised as yet,” he continued. Without giving a hint on where his heart is, the former Dynamos coach said he wants to return to management with a team that gives him favourable terms. “I am a coach that is my job and if I get a good offer I will take it, I will return to work. “If I get another job in Zimbabwe or even in the region I will take it as long as I am comfortable with the terms being offered by the job,” said Pasuwa. Pasuwa’s remarks that he is ready to listen even to local offers is sure to leave many ambitious clubs green with envy having already tied some trainers to take charge of their teams coaching responsibilities for the upcoming 2019 premiership season. With a proven coach like Pasuwa still on the market it is sure to unsettle some coaches who are failing to leave up to the expectations of their employers. Since his departure from the Harare giants, the Glamour Boys have struggled to remain a force in a league that has been dominated by well-resourced teams like FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum Stars. An imminent return to Dynamos is however unlikely with the club still finding itself in a deplorable financial situation with the club’s leadership structure being constantly blamed for the team’s woes. Pasuwa also remains the best option for another Warriors return if the current technical department led by veteran gaffer Sunday Chidzambwa fails to deliver. The Warriors just need any result barring a loss against Congo in the Capital to book another dance at the African Cup of nations final to be played in Egypt this year.