The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League clubs have nine weeks to prepare for the 2019 campaign which starts on March 30. In a statement yesterday, the PSL said fixtures would be released in due course and clubs should submit their squads for registration on February 22. “The 2019 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season is set to commence on Saturday 30 March 2019. In preparation for the start of the season, the PSL will conduct stadium inspections from 29 January to 12 February 2019. “Further, an induction workshop for the newly promoted PSL clubs will be held on 8 February 2019. This is meant to equip the new clubs with knowledge and expertise on the operations of the league. “PSL Clubs have been advised to submit their player registration documents by 22 February 2019 for the processing of player’s licences. The first player transfer window closes on 31 March 2019,” reads the PSL statement. Premiership newboys that will attend the induction workshop are Manica Diamonds from Mutare, Gweru’s TelOne, Mushowani Stars, who will use Bindura for their games, and returnees Hwange. The announcement gives clubs ample time to plan their pre-season programmes. A potentially explosive season awaits local football enthusiasts, with about six clubs expected to be involved in the title race. Barring fatigue, defending champions FC Platinum will be aiming for a third consecutive title, which will enable them to keep the Castle Lager PSL trophy for good in their cabinet. FC Platinum are participating in the Caf Champions League. The platinum miners had a short break during the festive holiday because of their involvement in the continental clubs’ competition, but have assembled a strong side capable of defending the title. Also hard pressed to wrestle the league title from FC Platinum are Ngezi Platinum Stars, who have hired Dutchman and former Highlanders’ coach Erol Akbay after finishing runners-up last season. Ngezi have been open about their desire to win the league championship, which puts Akbay and his lieutenants under the spotlight. Chicken Inn have been busy adding “fire-power” to their squad, a clear indication that they also want the title. Coach Joey Antipas, who spent three weeks on attachment at Bundesliga side Werder Bremen in Germany, has declared his intention to go for the coveted silverware. The Gamecocks have signed 24-year-old central midfielder Sipho Ndlovu from Bulawayo City, midfielder Brett Amidu (23) from Dynamos, Harare City striker Marlvin Gaki (24) and the attacking pair of Clive Augusto (24) from Ngezi and Panashe Mutasa (19) from Dynamos. Highlanders, who have gone for more than a decade without winning the championship, will also be hoping to end their title drought. Bosso have also strengthened their side by adding the attacking pair of Bukhosi “Zakhu” Sibanda and Prince Dube, who want to revive their careers after unfruitful sojourns in South Africa. Defensive midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku, utility player Mbekezeli Sibanda and ex-Dynamos winger Cleopas Kapupurika also joined Bosso. The fading Bulawayo giants are close to sealing a deal with Zambian striker Peter Nyirenda, who was expected in Bulawayo yesterday. Caps United have recruited the experienced Gabriel Nyoni, Newman Sianchali and Phineas Bhamusi in a bid to return the glory days. The 2018 Chibuku Super Cup winners Triangle United and Harare City as well as Premiership newboys Manica Diamonds, who have opened their cheque books, are among the championship dark horses. – @ZililoR