The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
PREMIER Soccer League new boys TelOne FC coach Joel Luphahla has described the departure of defensive midfielder Pride Zivengwa as a “big blow” to their debut season plans. Zivengwa, a former Young Warriors star, left the Gweru-based club, who won the 2018 Central Region Division One League, for Harare giants Caps United, who are said to have made a better offer to the player. Luphahla had hoped to build his team around Zivengwa among other experienced players that inspired TelOne to the Premiership in their second First Division season. In an interview from his Gweru base, Luphahla said: “We’re completing our second week of pre-season training. Almost all the players we wanted from the squad we had in Division One are around save for Pride Zivengwa who has since joined Caps United. It’s a big blow for us as we had identified him as one of the vital cogs in our team. “We wish him the best and even though we wanted him, we couldn’t match what he was being offered by Caps United.” TelOne have lured former Tsholotsho defender Trust Nyabinde, who turned out for relegated Bulawayo City last season, left-winger Takudzwa Mahore from Caps United and Southern Region Division One Soccer Star of the Year finalist Mcebisi Moyo. Moyo, an attacking midfielder, turned out for Tsholotsho last season. Luphahla said his side would be made up of mostly unheralded players keen to market themselves in the topflight. “We can’t afford big name players so we want those who want to market themselves. As TelOne, we want to afford young footballers an opportunity to showcase their talent. “It’s my hope that maybe we get about five players from the Under-20 squad that lost in the final of the Cosafa Under-20 Championships in Zambia. “If we can get one seasoned defender, a midfielder and striker who can give us balance, I think we will be ready for the season. “We’ve already identified some players, but I can’t say their names because we are trying to ascertain whether they are contracted to other clubs or not,” Luphahla said. Tafadzwa Sibanda, who was on loan at Highlanders, and former Tsholotsho forward Mostaf Ponyera, are some of the experienced players expected to lead the WiFi Boys in their maiden Premiership season. Some players that were influential in TelOne’s Division One campaign are midfielders Fortune Nkala, Leeroy Rwokuda, Paddy “Beast” Nyamatanga, striker Beven Kandani as well as central defender Stephen Phiri. — @ZililoR