The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
HOROYA AC of Guinea jetted into Bulawayo yesterday morning and are upbeat ahead of Saturday’s “must-win” Caf Champions League Group B clash against FC Platinum at Barbourfields Stadium. The West Africans arrived in the country on Saturday and set up camp in Harare before flying to Bulawayo yesterday morning. They held an afternoon training session at Luveve Stadium and are set to train at Barbourfields Sdtadium tomorrow afternoon. Impressed by the hosts’ hospitality, Horoya managing director Amadou Bangoura said they remain focused on upsetting the Zimbabwe champions. “Our stay in Zimbabwe has been good and we are enjoying it. However, we know that this game is important to both teams and without disrespecting FC Platinum, we are here for three points,” said Bangoura. Both sides are searching for their first group match win after they drew one and lost one game each. FC Platinum and Horoya are tied on one point, while Orlando Pirates of South Africa and Esperance of Tunisia are tied on four points. Orlando Pirates top the group due to a superior goal difference. FC Platinum held Orlando Pirates to a 0-0 draw in their opening pool match at Barbourfields before losing 0-2 to Esperance. On the other hand, Horoya drew 1-1 with Esperance in their opening game and then slumped to a 0-3 drubbing by Orlando Pirates. The 16-time Guinean champions are under the guidance of veteran French coach Patrice Neveu, who has vast experience having coached a number of national teams on the continent, which include the DR Congo (DRC) and Niger. Horoya travelled without the injured duo of Daouda Camara and Germain Berthe, and are monitoring the progress of Senegalese goalkeeper Khadim Ndiaye and Guinean international Samuel Conte, who missed the trip to South Africa due to injury. Horoya should expect offensive play from FC Platinum, who were ultra-defensive in their loss to Esperance. The platinum miners set up a temporary base in Bulawayo on Tuesday. Horoya AC squad Goalkeepers: Khadim Ndiaye, Abdoulaye Kante, Moussa Camara Defenders: Godfred Assante, Marius Hamed Assoko, Boubacar Samasekou, Yakubu Hubu, Mohamed Lamine Fofana, Alseny Camara, Samuel Conte, Abu Mangue Camara Midfielders: Baffour Sebe, Abdoulaye Camara, Dramane Nikiema, Brefo Mensah, Boniface Haba, Mohamed Djibo Wonkoye, Naby Soumah
Strikers: Patrick Razak, Ocansey Mandela, Sékou Keita, Siméon Bolaji