The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo in Tunis, Tunisia
FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza yesterday told local media here that his charges are well aware of the rules of engagement when they take on Total Caf Champions League holders Esperance at an empty Stade El Menzeh this afternoon. The match kicks off at 2PM Tunisian time (3PM Zimbabwean time) and will be broadcast live on SuperSport 9. Speaking moments before their second and final training session yesterday, Mapeza, who was accompanied by his vice-captain Mkhokheli Dube at the Press conference, said they were well aware of the pedigree of their opponents, but were, however, equally prepared despite the respect they have for the Tunisian giants. “We know a lot about our opponents tomorrow. They are one of the biggest clubs in Africa; they are the holders of the title and well supported here in Tunisia with their good brand of football. “However, we came here with a mission and the boys know what is expected of them and I just hope tomorrow we will have a good game and go back home with a positive result,” said Mapeza. Both teams played to a stalemate in their Group B opening matches, with Esperance managing a one-all draw on the road against Guinea’s Horoya, while Pure Platinum Play put up a resilient show against 1995 winners Orlando Pirates of South Africa at a packed Barbourfields Stadium to secure a goalless draw. Dube, a veteran of many battles who is facing the Tunisians for the third time, said while they have respect for their opponents, that honour will not be at play during 90 minutes of football. “We came here with a lot of respect for our opponents being the holders of the cup, but when it comes to the field of play, it will be a different ball game altogether. We know what we are here for and that is a positive result to take back home,” said Dube. The team then held an hour long training session at the venue with the squad showing a lot of hunger and zeal ahead of today’s game. With the match set to be played in an empty stadium, the usually intimidating home fans will be like the millions of Zimbabweans who will follow the duel on their television sets. Caf slapped Esperance with the sanctions after misbehaviour by the home fans in the final against Egypt’s Al Ahly last year.