The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
POLICE in Matabeleland South Province have raised concern over some bars and bottle stores that are selling alcohol to minors saying they will intensify patrols to bring such operators to book. Speaking at a recent crime awareness campaign at Amazon Business Centre in Filabusi, Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson, Chief Inspector Philisani Ndebele said the minors that were flocking to bottle stores and bars go on to engage in criminal activities. “As police we are concerned over the number of minors that fill up bars and bottles stores. The owners of these places allow these youngsters into their places which is illegal. We will intensify patrols at bottle stores and bars and if we find youngsters the bar owners will be arrested. The owners have to properly manage their places so that youngsters don’t have access,” he said. “We will also make follow ups to make sure that bars and bottle stores close at the stipulated time as some operate throughout the night. Another area we will focus on is ensuring that people don’t drink from bottle stores. A bottle store is meant for people to buy their beer and leave but some owners allow customers to be milling around and drinking beer. These acts end up being the cause of a lot of criminal activities.” Chief Insp Ndebele appealed to villagers to report to the police any bar owners that permitted youngsters in their premises. He also raised concern over cases of drowning, calling on parents to warn their children against crossing flooded rivers. Chief Insp Ndebele said 15 cases of drowning had been recorded in the province during the festive season. “As schools open, can you ensure that you warn children against crossing flooded rivers. If the rivers are already flooded by the time they leave home you would rather stop them from leaving,” he said. “When it comes to adults please desist from crossing flooded rivers. We also have cases of people who drown while fishing. As a province we recorded 15 cases of drowning this festive season. Last week two children drowned right here in Filabusi.” Chief Insp Ndebele said cases of crimes of passion remained high in the province and also urged community members to desist from harbouring and protecting criminals. He said anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of a culprit should approach the police as withholding information could endanger the community. Chief Insp Ndebele said the police were also concerned by cases of violence in mining areas over mining claims. He said they were going to hold similar crime awareness campaign meetings in various districts in the province. — @DubeMatutu.