The Chronicle Paris — Paris Saint-Germain are hoping Neymar’s prayers are answered after the runaway Ligue 1 leaders’ talisman suffered a fresh metatarsal injury just weeks from their huge Champions League clash with Manchester United. Neymar invoked divine intervention after being forced to leave the field in tears during their 2-0 French Cup win over Strasbourg in midweek with the same injury that curtailed the Brazilian’s campaign last season. “Your will be done, my God” he wrote in an Instagram post. Although fans in Paris are concerned about the danger of Neymar missing the two games against a rejuvenated United, his absence should not have much impact on PSG’s title defence. Thomas Tuchel’s side are 13 points clear at the top of Ligue 1 going into their home meeting with Rennes on Sunday, and with serious domestic opposition lacking, most in the French capital are now looking ahead to Old Trafford on February 12. Tuchel admitted that both the player and PSG’s medical staff are “worried” about the injury, and bemoaned that “the referee didn’t give anything” despite what he saw as persistent fouling from Strasbourg. PSG’s domestic task has been made easier by the atrocious form of Monaco and Marseille, who this week have made moves to reverse their fortunes in desperate campaigns. Thierry Henry’s suspension as Monaco coach on Thursday came ahead of the principality club’s huge relegation clash with fellow strugglers Dijon today evening, and just hours after he told reporters “my future is not a problem”. Leonardo Jardim — the man who Henry replaced following an atrocious start to the season — is favourite to retake his place on the Monaco bench once the former France and Arsenal striker’s sacking is made official. Henry was relieved of his coaching duties with Monaco in the bottom two having won just two league matches since his arrival in mid-October. A French Cup humilation at the hands of second-tier Metz in midweek proved to be the final straw, although Monaco could escape from the relegation zone should they beat Dijon, who are two points ahead in 18th. Fixtures
Today: Dijon v Monaco, Guingamp v Reims, Strasbourg v Bordeaux, Nice v Nimes (all 21:00) Tomorrow: Montpellier v Caen (16:00), Amiens v Lyon (18:00), Toulouse v Angers (21:00), Paris Saint-Germain v Rennes (22:00) Wednesday: Nantes v Saint-Etienne (22:00) — AFP.