The Chronicle Midlands Bureau Chief
GWERU Deputy Mayor Councillor Cleopas Shiri yesterday said the city’s water woes are set to continue following a pipe burst as the water and reticulation system gives in due to dilapidation. In an interview yesterday, Clr Shiri said residents and industry will continue facing water challenges unless the entire water and reticulation system is overhauled. “Residents must brace themselves for more days without water as yet another pipe burst has occurred near the area that was repaired yesterday (Sunday). I was advised that our 525mm diameter pipeline has burst once again next to the portion we repaired yesterday (Sunday). Just to show how big the pipe is, a cow that wanted to drink water from the area fell into the ditch created and died. Our engineers are attending to the burst,” he said. “This water problem will only end when we overhaul or change the ageing equipment or infrastructure but funds are not permitting.” Clr Shiri said the city is pumping water from Gwenhoro and Whitewaters dams. “Pumping mains from Whitewaters also burst in the evening. In the meantime we will continue supplying water using the 600mm diameter line from Gwenhoro which has a carrying capacity of 30 mega litres. This is less than our usual 45 mega litres per day required to service the city meaning water shortages are set to continue,” he said. Clr Shiri said reports had reached the mayor’s office that some areas had gone for more than nine days without water because of constant water pipe bursts. He said pumping of water is also being affected by power outages. “Most high density areas are having water challenges. Some have gone for over nine days without potable water. A number of suburbs have been without water as council is experiencing pumping challenges at Gwenhoro treatment plant due to low voltage electricity,” said Clr Shiri. A service level benchmarking peer review report for Gweru last year revealed that council is losing at least 57percent of its treated water through burst pipes and leakages, with most of its equipment having outlived its lifespan. The report indicated that council surpassed the water leaks acceptable levels by more than 50 percent, a situation that pointed to heavy loss of treated water in the city.