The Chronicle Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau
A 24-YEAR-OLD man was on Friday morning fatally assaulted by a group of illegal immigrants he attempted to rob at gun point at the confluence of Umzingwane and Limpopo rivers. It is reported that Witness Chauke, believed to be part of a gang terrorising border jumpers and smugglers along the Limpopo River, was in the company of three others who are still at large. Sources close to investigations said Chauke was disarmed by the border jumpers around 10AM. “His body was taken to Beitbridge District Hospital mortuary pending a postmortem,” said the source. Matabeleland South Police spokesperson Chief Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the incident yesterday. He said a Smith Browning pistol (9mm) loaded with two rounds and an okapi knife were recovered from the man. “We are investigating a case where the now deceased, together with three others who are still at large, pounced on a group of border jumpers along the Limpopo River. Chauke was armed with a pistol and during the robbery there was commotion. He was overpowered by the gang who then assaulted him. “His accomplices fled from the scene upon realising they had been overpowered. Chauke sustained severe injuries and was later taken to Beitbridge District Hospital where he died upon admission,” said Chief Insp Ndebele. He said no arrests had been made and they were investigating a case of robbery and murder. He said anyone with information should contact the nearest police station. Chief Insp Ndebele warned members of the public against illegal migration as they risked being mugged, killed, raped or attacked by wild animals and criminals along the boundary. “As police we continue to encourage people to practice safe and legal migration methods. They must desist from border jumping. Such a practice puts their lives at risk. “We have received a lot of rape, murder and robberies among other criminal vices along the Limpopo River,” he said. The incident comes a few months after an 18-men gang including suspected border jumpers and fishermen teamed up and killed a crocodile which had charged at them at an illegal crossing point along the Limpopo River. The incident occurred some 500 metres east of the Alfred Beit-Bridge.