The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
THE Government has started processing benefits for more than 3 000 youth officers who were retrenched, while a number of empowerment programmes are being facilitated for them. In a statement, the Public Service Commission acting secretary, Mr Simon Masanga, said the youths officially retired yesterday. He promised that the Government would ensure a smooth transition and empowerment of the retirement of the youth officers. In line with the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP) and as pronounced in the 2019 Budget Statement by the Minister of Finance and Economic Development, Professor Mthuli Ncube, the Government has initiated the process of retiring 3 365 youth officers in the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation. “The youth officers will be paid their cash in lieu of notice pending retirement on January 4, 2019. The Youth Ministry as the lead ministry in partnership with other Government institutions in particular the Ministries of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare, Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises Development and the Public Service Commission are facilitating access to a wide range of economic empowerment initiatives for the youth officers,” said Mr Masanga. He said the empowerment programmes for the youths included, among others, enrolling at the Vocational Training Centres (VCTs) dotted across the provinces to be equipped with technical entrepreneurial life skills. “The youths can also be assisted to access finance from the Empower Bank and Zimbabwe Women’s Microfinance Bank, among other financial institutions, to start up new business ventures or to grow existing businesses. Another option is to facilitate the youth officers to participate in other Government empowerment programmes, which include Command Agriculture, mining and value addition. Information on various investment opportunities will also be availed,” said Mr Masanga. He added that during the same period, provincial and district workshops will be convened to assist the retired youth officers to access the ongoing empowerment programmes. “The retired youth officers interested in the empowerment opportunities are advised to register through the Youth Ministry’s district offices throughout the country. Government wishes to extend its gratitude and appreciation to the youth officers for the 10 years they served the Government and wishes them well in their future endeavours. “Government will do everything possible to manage the smooth transition of the retirement of the youth officers during this phase,” said Mr Masanga. Last year, Treasury indicated that the retrenchment of the youth officers will cut Government expenditure on salaries by $30 million a year, resources which will be channelled towards development projects. — @pamelashumba1