The Chronicle Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau
SAMSON Muripo is hoping to carry the momentum, which saw him succeed last year, to his upcoming events starting with the Fifth International So-Kyokushin Karate Championships Oyama Cup in Ahvaz, Iran, from February 27 to March 1. Last year the 40-year-old fought his way to a gold medal in the Open weight category. He also got a silver in the kata competition of the same weight division. Muripo, together with five other So-Kyokushin karatekas, are scheduled to join some of the world’s top fighters at the tournament in Iran. He will be competing in the 40-years-and-above senior men Open category as well as the kata event. The tournament is one of the three events in the first half of the year which he is targeting. “I am focusing on the first half of the year and the target is to always win, nothing less. “I am always sceptical, I am not always satisfied with my potential because I don’t know my full potential. “So, every day I work to discover my new limits so I can’t say I am at my best. Those things will be examined on the day of the tournament,” said Muripo. The former world champion last year indicated he was shifting his focus to tournaments outside Africa after taking part at the IKOKU International full contact karate tournament in Cape Town, South Africa. The Zimbabwe So-kyokushin Karate Do-Organisation branch chief and development officer for Africa yesterday said now that he is more involved in administration, scouting and nurturing talent there is need to find some form of balance. “Normally, in most of these events I am involved in looking for sponsorship as well. For instance, when we are going overseas and for regional events and even hosting events, sometimes I am the one who is spearheading (the programme) to find sponsorship and scouting for talent so it stretches me a lot. “That’s why I can’t fight in a lot of tournaments. “At times I have to be in the administrative gear as well as the fighter’s mode so it needs to be balanced,” said Muripo. The other fighters expected to compete in Iran are Justice Mutyoramwendo, Tangayi Mhlanga, Naison Chituwa, Patrick Mangwiro and Admire Chingozhoro.