The Chronicle Harare Bureau
ZIMPAPERS has donated $20 000 to Island Hospice & Healthcare following its successful annual Cancer Power walk held end of last year. The Power Walk, which has been held annually since 2016 to raise awareness about Cancer as well as raise funds for cancer initiatives, was held for the first time in the three cities of Bulawayo, Mutare and Harare at the end of last year. The Zimpapers Cancer Advocacy Campaign is held under a Memorandum of Understanding entered into by the Zimpapers Group and Island Hospice in 2015 for Cancer Advocacy. Through this MOU, the Zimpapers Group avails space on its multiple media plaforms, including radio and newspapers, for the spread and dissemination of Cancer information. Island Hospice Director Mrs Beverly Sebastian said Zimpapers’ continued support for her Organisation and the work it does over the years has led to growing awareness of Cancer, non communicable diseases as well as Palliative Care. “Our relationship with Zimpapers continues to provide us with important platforms to demystify palliative care and cancer. Despite the difficult economic environment, Zimpapers has continued to honour its commitments as evidenced by annually holding the Power Walk even when conditions have been hard. The walk has also grown bigger and better every year; bringing more people on board and spreading the message even further,” she said. Mrs Sebastian said funds raised from the walk would be used to procure medication and thousands of patients would benefit from the initiative. “The funds raised from the 2018 walk will go towards procuring medication for all our branches including Bulawayo, Harare, Mutare and Marondera. This is an excellent example of corporate social responsibility where thousands will benefit. This sets us off for an exciting year ahead with the Ministry of Health and Child Care leading the integration of palliative care into the health delivery system with us as the technical leading palliative care agency in the country. “Through this partnership with Zimpapers, Island Hospice aims to continue raising awareness about palliative care with a focus on cancer and other non-communicable diseases (NCDs) to ensure no one living with, and dying from life-threatening conditions, suffers unnecessarily,” she said. Zimpapers Public Relations and Corporate Affairs Manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi said the diversified media group was keen to keep raising awareness around cancer and other NCDs as they continue to pose serious challenges in the country. “Cancer remains a serious cause for concern in the country with many people dying and succumbing to different forms of cancer in recent years. “While society has become a bit more conscious of cancers such as breast and cervical cancer, there are also cancers that affect men and some which affect children that remain largely unknown. We believe that we have a role in leading such conversations through our many platforms so that where possible; people can prevent these conditions and where it is not possible; can get an early diagnosis; which improves chances of successful treatment.” She applauded sponsors of the Zimpapers 2018 Cancer Campaign, saying without their support, the Cancer Campaign would not have been a success and funds would not have been mobilised. Beta Holdings, National Aids Council, Medirite Healthcare, Medirite Distribution, CIMAS, FBC Bank, Tanganda, Homelink, First Mutual, Megafest Holdings, Manicaland Motoring Club, Corporate24 Hospital Group, Ngoda Granites and Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council were the sponsors of the 2018 Annual Cancer Power Walk.