The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
BULAWAYO Chiefs FC captain Gracious Muleya is reportedly on his way out of the club, with sources linking the central midfielder with a move to Air Force of Zimbabwe side Chapungu. Muleya was one of Bulawayo Chiefs’ leading lights and their leading goalscorer last season with nine Premiership goals. Former FC Platinum striker Rodwell Chinyengetere topped the scoring chart with 17 goals, followed by ex-Triangle United forward Lameck Nhamo with 15 and David Temwanjira on 13 goals. Muleya was tied on nine goals with Black Rhinos’ Lot Chiwunga and Ralph Matema of Yadah. The industrious box-to-box Muleya’s contract expired on December 31. “Gracious Muleya has moved to Chapungu. He should be in Gweru right now for their pre-season training camp. It’s a blow to Bulawayo Chiefs, but he played his part and it’s time to move on,” said a source. Muleya will not be the only missing face when Bulawayo Chiefs begin their pre-season training with trials at Raylton Sports Club this afternoon. The club, who earned themselves the “giant killers” tag after flooring champions FC Platinum, Ngezi Platinum Stars, Chicken Inn and Highlanders, has lost defender Andrew Tandi, who moved to Black Rhinos and playmaker Perfect Chikwende, who was snapped up by FC Platinum. Premiership returnees Hwange are reportedly planning to raid Bulawayo Chiefs, with forceful striker Stanley Ngala being the prime target. On the other hand, Bulawayo Chiefs are said to be interested in Indlovu Iyanyathela’s duo of national Under-20 left-back Brendon Mpofu and attacking midfielder Tafadzwa Dhliwayo, the 2018 Southern Region Division One League Soccer Star of the Year runner-up. The status of utility player Shadreck Nyahwa, who was on loan from Bantu Rovers last season, is unknown, with Triangle United reportedly interested in him. Despite losing Muleya and Chikwende, Bulawayo Chiefs will be hoping to hold onto some of their prized players, who include goalkeeper David Bizabani, defenders Sikhumbulani Majekesa Dube, Lee Matizirofa and right-back Marvin Mkolo. They also have central midfielder Takunda Muzuva, utility player Moses Majika and striker Farai Matare. Repeated efforts to get comment from Bulawayo Chiefs spokesperson Dumisani Mantula-Sibanda were fruitless. — @ZililoR