The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Acting Business Editor
THE Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) will continue to participate at the International Tourism and Trade Fair (FITUR) in Spain in order to increase tourist arrivals from the Spanish market. Zimbabwe’s participation at the just ended FITUR which began on Wednesday and ended yesterday, saw scores of destination marketing experts and operators thronging destination Zimbabwe stand. In a statement, ZTA said this year’s edition of the fair was its biggest ever with the participation of 886 stand-holder exhibitors and more than 10 487 companies from 165 countries and regions. Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira who led the Zimbabwe delegation to the tourism fair was quoted as saying: “We would like to participate like other countries showcasing that Zimbabwe remains a safe must visit tourism destination as already certified by various global surveys.” Resuscitation and forging new partnerships with tour operators while nurturing the existing business relationships with the view of intensifying the promotion and packaging of the destination came under the spotlight during the tourism fair. ZTA acting chief executive Mr Givemore Chidzidzi was quoted saying Zimbabwe’s participation at FITUR was part of the re-engagement exercise and a confirmation that the country is open for tourism business. “The Spanish market is on an upward growth trend with 2017 having recorded 12 583 tourist arrivals which is a 41 percent increase from 8 950 arrivals in 2016,” he said. The first nine months of 2017 saw Zimbabwe welcoming 8 303 arrivals from Spain while 10 478 arrivals were recorded last year. “We are certain that 2019 will yield much more not only in the Spanish market but globally, given the various recent endorsements by media powerhouses such as Lonely Planet, National Geographic, The Telegraph and Frommers,” said Mr Chidzidzi. Meanwhile, Zimbabwe and Zambia have joined hands in pushing for the visibility of the two destinations in line with the two countries’ vision of ease of access between the two countries. A tagline #ZAMZIMFITUR2019 has been coined for this campaign with an intent to take an opportunity to promote integration thereby increasing travel between the two countries. — @okazunga