The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
ZIFA and 210 other Fifa member associations is set to receive $6 million in the next four years as part of Fifa’s Forward 2.0 project of capacitating its members as support for operational needs and development projects. In addition to the $6 million entitlement, which is an increase of 20 percent, member associations that have an annual revenue of $4 million or less will receive a further $1 million to support their travel and equipment needs. Fifa deputy secretary-general in charge of football Zvonimir Boban said following the successful implementation of the first edition of the Fifa Forward Development Programme 2016-2018 (Fifa Forward 1.0), the second edition (Fifa Forward 2.0) was now in force. He said the Fifa Forward 1.0 achieved some spectacular development results, which saw member associations being supported financially in their daily operations and by the setting of new strategic long-term goals, implementing tailor-made development projects to provide football infrastructure and competitions as well as to promote and advance women’s football. Boban said the Fifa Congress voted to increase investment in the Fifa Forward Development Programme for the next cycle of 2019-2022 with a 20 percent increase in the annual entitlement for each of the 211-member associations and six confederations in June 2018. From member associations’ feedback in 12 Fifa Executive Football Summits held between November 2017 and March 2018, Boban said experiences and lessons learnt led to the drafting of an amended set of regulations approved by the Fifa Council in Kigali on October 26, 2018, resulting in the Fifa Forward Development Programme Regulations – Forward 2.0. “The core principles, approach and procedures of Fifa Forward 1.0 largely remain, while certain elements have been adapted to reflect the increase in member associations’ entitlements and the need for greater football development and for reporting on the programme’s achievements, legacy and impact,” wrote Boban in a circular to the member associations. “The main amendments under Forward 2.0 for the 2019-2022 cycle are as follows: A. Financial entitlement (article 6) 1. An investment of US$6 million per member association for the four-year cycle is allocated to support their operational needs and development projects, and an additional amount of up to US$1 million is available for member associations with an annual revenue of US$4 million or less in order to support their travel and equipment needs. 2. Up to US$1 million for zonal/regional associations will be released to the respective confederations in January of each year provided that the zonal/regional association is recognised by the confederation and organises at least one women’s, two boys’ and two girls’ competitions (for national teams or clubs). 3. US$12 million will be automatically released to each confederation every year in two biannual payments, in January and July,” wrote Boban.
Fifa, however, warned member associations that there will be a central audit review of the development funds to prevent abuse and embezzlement, adding that independent auditors will be appointed by the world football governing body. “All member associations will undergo a central audit review of the development funds they have received on an annual basis. The review will be conducted via desktop reviews and onsite visits between 1 July and 30 August each year by independent auditors appointed by Fifa. Contributions and funds allocated under Forward 1.0. should be used until 31 December 2020.”