The Chronicle Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter
THE resolution by Zanu-PF legislators to forgo luxury vehicles and other privileges they are entitled to fits into the austerity drive by Government and resonate with President Mnangagwa’s call for servant leadership, political analysts have said. The decision was announced on Tuesday by the Zanu-PF Chief Whip Cde Pupurai Togarepi who said the move was meant to allow Government to direct resources towards more pressing needs facing the country. The legislators, with Norton legislator Mr Themba Mliswa at the forefront, had demanded top of the range Toyota Land Cruiser V8 vehicles, a raise in their allowances and pensions, gym facilities, three luxury meals plus dessert among other demands. Minister of Finance Professor Mthuli Ncube eventually agreed to increase the budget for Parliament from $101 million to $145 million in response to the demands.
Political analyst Mr Richard Mahomva said the resolution was a noble one and shows that the Members of Parliament are in support of Government efforts to transform the economy. “While there is a probability for the move by Zanu-PF legislators to be misconstrued as rehearsed courtesy, it’s important to acknowledge that the decision aptly fits into the austerity overdrive and the fiscal consolidation measure which characterise the reconstruction tenets of 2019 budget,” he said. “The move further reaffirms dedicated commitment by legislators to reduce Government expenditure inline with goals of the Transitional Stabilisation Programme. This is a step in the right direction as it indicates the common vision all our leaders must have when it comes to priority setting, especially at a time when many socio-economic functionaries of the state are under siege as a result of the prevailing fiscal challenges.” Mr Mahomva said the development should be emulated by other legislators as opposed to demanding luxuries when the economy is not performing well. Another political analyst Mr Godwin Mureriwa said the gesture by Zanu-PF legislators strengthens the President’s call for servant leadership during this time when the Government is working on turning around the economy “Such selflessness should be emulated throughout the public and private sectors. Austerity measures prescribe that Government expenditure should be drastically reduced. It is being selfish and greedy to demand luxuries when the majority of people are suffering,” he said. Mr Mureriwa said it was important for those in leadership to appreciate that the Government can only spend what it has. Scores of people took to social media platforms to express their appreciation for the resolution by Zanu-PF and urged all other legislators to put the people they represent first before their personal gains. The people said those demanding luxuries were insensitive to the plight of ordinary people who are struggling to make ends meet. – @esinathy_essira