The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter
AN independent power producer (IPP), Shangani Renewable Energy (Private) Limited, plans to set up a 25 megawatt solar plant in Matabeleland South which will feed into the national grid. In a public notice yesterday, the Zimbabwe Energy Regulatory Authority (Zera) said it has received an application from Shangani Renewable Energy to construct a 25MW solar plant in Insiza district. “Zera has received an application from Shangani Renewable Energy Private Limited to construct, own, operate and maintain a 25MW solar plant at Ensangu Estate in Shangani, Insiza district in Matabeleland South Province.” “The applicant intends selling the power generated to Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company. “The project will also include the construction of four kilometres of an 11kv twin bison transmission line from the proposed Shangani solar plant to the existing Shangani 132/11kv,” said Zera. The licence application by Shangani Renewable Energy Private Limited was done in terms of Sections 42 and 46 of the Electricity Act (Chapter 13: 19) of 2002. Zera said any person desiring to make representations on the proposed power plant should lodge a written representation Zera before February 18, 2019. “Any representations received after February 18, 2019 shall not be considered by the authority,” it said. Last year four IPPs approached Zera seeking independent licences for electricity generation. The applicants include Gombe Power Solutions, which has the biggest proposal as it plans to invest in a 100MW solar photovoltaic plant in Mashonaland West province. Tugwi Mukosi Hydro Power Company, which has the largest inland water body in the country and Triangle Solar systems (Private) Limited both in Masvingo province last year applied to Zera for the establishment of 15MW hydro power and 45MW PV plant respectively. Dairy foods manufacturer, Kefalos Cheese Products (Private) Limited from Mashonaland East also applied last year seeking to establish a 0,6MW power plant for own industrial consumption. If approved, the proposals will see the applicants producing up to 167 megawatts. Since 2010, Zera has been licensing IPPs and to date close to 30 have been registered to invest in electricity generation across the country. The Government was also working on reducing the country’s power import bill by investing in new power generation projects that are ultimately intended to make Zimbabwe a net power exporter. Presently the average maximum daily power demand is about 1 600MW against an average internal generation capacity of about 1 200MW. Other power projects set to significantly impact on Zimbabwe’s power generation include the planned 2 400MW plant by RioZim as well as the 2 400MW Batoka power project along the Zambezi River. It is hoped that electricity generated from the Batoka project would be shared equally between Zambia and Zimbabwe. — @queentauruszw