The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
RESIDENTS of Cowdray Park’s Garikai/Hlalani Kuhle area owe the Bulawayo City Council $24 million for the residential stands sold to them. The outstanding amount constitutes 74 percent of the $32 million owed to the local authority. The council is now considering approaching the courts to recover the money as residents have ignored constant reminders to pay the debt. This was revealed by the Director of Housing and Community Services Mr Dictor Khumalo in the latest council report saying residents are supposed to clear their balances in 24 months after the purchase of residential stands. “The majority of debtors are from Cowdray Park. For all stands sold, beneficiaries are required to pay a quarter of the amount as deposit and clear the balance within a period of two years. After two years of non- compliance, reminders are sent out to the beneficiaries,” he said. Mr Khumalo said a number of circulars had been received from the Ministry Local Government, Public Works and National Housing and one such circular stated that council should give residents up to 20 years to pay. Town Clerk, Mr Christopher Dube said while the circular was still binding, council should seek other avenues to recover the debts. “Chegutu Town Council has taken the matter to the courts where a ruling has been secured in their favour. Council could also go the same route,” he said. In the report on debtors, council is owed $32,6million with the bulk of the balance which is about 74 percent of the total representing the Hlalani Kuhle debt. Cowdray Park owes council $24,2 million followed by Emhlangeni which owes about $2 million. The Hlalani Kuhle/ Garikai stands were issued by the Government to settle people who were affected by Operation Murambatsvina. The Garikai/Hlalani Kuhle Housing project in Bulawayo, which is a self- financing scheme, seeks to service about 12 683 stands with sewer, water reticulation and roads at an estimated cost of $46 million. There has been quite a substantial addition of stands in the area and raised the recorded number of 9 000 to 12 683-plus stands. BCC has slashed its monthly charges from $50 to $15 after most beneficiaries said they could not afford the monthly installments. The local authority said its going to take 16 years to service the Hlalani Kuhle/Garikai area and $46 million is needed for the project. Council said initially it had projected to complete servicing the area at the end of 2017 but due to low revenues received from Hlalani Kuhle/Garikai home-owners, the project is now expected to be completed in 2033. Last year the Bulawayo City Council embarked on a project to connect water to residents of Garikai/ Hlalani Kuhle area up to water meter level in a bid to encourage residents to pay and get water connected to their homes. – @AuxiliaK