The Chronicle Paidamoyo Chipunza, Harare Bureau
ALL schools that had temporarily closed due to the recent violent demonstrations that rocked the country must resume lessons with immediate effect following assurance from Government of the safety of both learners and teachers, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Professor Paul Mavima has said. Addressing journalists in Harare yesterday, Professor Mavima said the majority of schools that had closed during the protests had since reopened. “The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education would like to advise the nation and all its stakeholders that learning should resume forthwith in all schools. “We have assurance from Government that the safety of all learners in our schools is guaranteed,” said Professor Mavima. He said school heads must also make sure that the loss of time due to the disturbances must be compensated without any deviation from the learners 2019 academic calendar as most schools, including boarding schools and those in rural areas continued teaching during the period. Professor Mavima said provincial and district managers are therefore urged to supervise and report any cases of schools that might still be facing challenges in resuming lessons. “Heads of schools and teachers are therefore instructed to put in place enough mechanisms to ensure that effective learning takes place with immediate effect. “Our provincial and district managers are also urged to play their supervisory role and report any cases of schools that could be having challenges,” he said. Minister Mavima also clarified that no directive had been issued by his Ministry for schools to remain closed until further notice. He said in any case most schools were not affected by the protests except those in urban areas where the protests took place. “We have also received some reports from various parts of the country that there are some places where there was an assumption that there was a directive from the Ministry to say do not resume teaching until you are instructed to do so and we want to correct that. “There is no such directive and schools should be open,” said Mavima. Most pupils stopped attending lessons on Tuesday following Monday’s violent protests during which teachers were forced to stop conducting lessons by protestors.