The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
THE United Nations (UN) has said Zimbabweans should shun violence and engage in dialogue to solve the prevailing socio-economic challenges. In an interview, UN Communication Specialist Mr Sirak Gebrehiwot said it is critical to uphold the rule of law and ensure the protection of human rights of all Zimbabweans at all times. “The UN strongly believes that the current socio-economic challenges in the country can only be resolved through peaceful and inclusive consultative processes,” he said. “In line with Zimbabwe’s commitment to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, protection of human rights is critical for accelerated economic recovery, inclusive growth and sustainable development.” He said the UN is committed to continue supporting Zimbabwe for the country to achieve socio-economic stability in order to realise its vision 2030. Mr Gebrehiwot said the UN System in Zimbabwe remains open and fully operational in support of national development priorities in the country. “The United Nations System in Zimbabwe, comprising agencies, funds and programmes, remains open and fully operational. The UN entities continue to implement various development and humanitarian activities in support of national development priorities and strengthening of national capacities to achieve socio-economic stability and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,” said Mr Gebrehiwot. He said the UN continues to partner Government and other stakeholders to find solutions to the prevailing economic challenges. Mr Gebrehiwot said UN prioritises food security for the ordinary Zimbabweans and will thrive to feed the needy. “The United Nations notes with concern the prevailing socio-economic challenges faced by ordinary Zimbabweans and the dire food security outlook prompted by the El Niño weather phenomenon. “We continue to monitor the situation in the country closely and remain fully engaged with Government and other partners to find lasting and peaceful solutions,” he said Mr Gebrehiwot said UN supports Government in its quest to implement the advancement of ‘sustainable, rights-based and inclusive economic growth and development for all, particularly the most vulnerable including children, women and youth.’ He said the UN has to date spent US$ 1,2 billion on various development programmes and projects through the 2016-2020 Zimbabwe United Nations Development Assistance Framework (ZUNDAF). Mr Gebrehiwot said the money amounts to 75 percent of the UN’s commitment to mobilise US$ 1,6 billion by December 2020. He said the UN’s contribution is on track to meet the targeted commitment. Mr Gebrehiwot said the ZUNDAF, which is fully aligned to national development priorities and the SDGs, aims to contribute to social services and protection, food and nutrition security, HIV and AIDS, gender equality, poverty reduction and public administration and governance. “Recently, the UN supported Government to establish a national peace building fund to the tune of US$ 3,15 million. We are at the forefront of combating Zimbabwe’s cholera outbreak and other water borne diseases by allocating funds amounting US$3 million from the UN Central Emergency Response Fund,” he said. — @tamary98.