The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
WITH the transfer window open, Chronicle Sport looks at all the latest confirmed deals involving teams like Highlanders, Caps United, Dynamos and champions FC Platinum. The 2019 Zimbabwe Premier Soccer League season is expected to kick-off in March and there has been a lot of activity on the transfer market as clubs attempt to strengthen their squads to challenge for the championship. FC Platinum have already lost their leading goal scorer Rodwell Chinyengetere to South African side Baroka FC, while the traditional big three have also been conducting business quietly. After losing the services of vice-captain Gabriel Nyoni and Newman Sianchali to Caps United, and captain Honest Moyo, Highlanders welcomed Prince Dube, Bukhosi “Zakhu” Sibanda, former Dynamos winger Cleopas Kapupurika, utility player Mbekezeli Sibanda and Russell Chifura. They’re also trying to secure the services of Zambian Peter Nyirenda to bolster their potency upfront. Bosso also reinforced their dugout by luring former skipper Bekithemba “Super” Ndlovu to partner Mandla “Lulu” Mpofu as assistant coaches to Madinda Ndlovu. The club also employed a full time fitness trianer in the form of Brian Keti. Dynamos are on the lookout for new talent to boost their squad and solve the club’s recurring problems. The Glamour Boys have already confirmed the acquisition of veteran striker Edward Sadomba. Players such as Hilary Bakacheza, Livingstone Genti, Osbourne Mukuradare, Munyaradzi Diya, Archford Gutu as well as Crispen Machisi have all been linked with DeMbare. Meanwhile, new boys Manica Diamond FC unveiled high profile signings that include Pritchard Mpelele and Marshall Mudehwe as well as former Dynamos players Patson Jaure, Wisdom Mutasa and Peace Makaha. Ngezi Platinum Stars’ highlight signing was the bringing in of former Highlanders coach Erol Akbay, who is joined by Cosmas “Tsano” Zulu and Tendai Chikuni. Chicken Inn, who finished third in the 2018 campaign behind FC Platinum and runners-up Ngezi Platinum Stars, signed central midfielder Brett Amidu from FC Platinum and Harare City striker Marlvin Gaki. Bulawayo Chiefs have lost defender Andrew Tandi, who moved to Black Rhinos and playmaker Perfect Chikwende, who went to FC Platinum. Premiership returnees Hwange FC are believed to be targeting Chiefs’ utility striker Stanley Ngala. There is plenty of intrigue around the transfer window, with each of the 18 clubs involved having different targets in mind. — @DecoDecent2