The Chronicle Cape Town — Virat Kohli has become the first player in history to win the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy for ICC Cricketer of the Year, the ICC Men’s Test Player of the Year and the ICC ODI Player of the Year awards all in the same year following an extraordinary 2018. Not only is Kohli the first player to win these three major ICC awards together but he has also been named the captain of the ICC Test and ODI teams of the year for a fabulous run in international cricket. Kohli scored 1 322 runs at an average of 55.08 in 13 Tests with five hundreds during the calendar year while in 14 ODIs he amassed 1 202 runs at an astonishing average of 133.55 with six centuries. He also scored 211 runs in 10 T20Is. The 30-year-old from Delhi, who first came into limelight when he led India to victory at the ICC U19 Cricket World Cup in Malaysia in 2008, finished the year as the top-ranked batsman in Tests and ODIs. The highest scorer in both forms of the game in 2018, he was one of only two batsmen to score more than 1 000 runs in Tests and only among three to do so in ODI cricket. Kohli was the unanimous choice of the Voting Academy for the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy with South Africa fast bowler Kagiso Rabada coming in second to him for both this award and the ICC Test Player of the Year award. Afghanistan leg-spinner Rashid Khan was runner-up to Kohli for the ICC ODI Player of the Year award. “It feels amazing. It’s a reward for all the hard work that you do throughout the calendar year. I feel really grateful and very, very happy with the team doing well at the same time myself performing. Having recognition at the global level from the ICC is something you feel proud of as a cricketer because you understand that there are many players playing the game,” Kohli told the ICC website. “To be rewarded in this manner from amongst all of them is obviously a very proud moment for me and something that gives you more motivation to keep repeating the same things because you have to keep the standard of cricket up and keep bringing in consistent performances. From that point of view, these awards give you that extra motivation.” Meanwhile, Kagiso Rabada is the only South African to feature in the ICC’s esteemed ODI and Test teams for 2018. The 23-year-old was named in the Test side of the year as the winners of the ICC Awards 2018 were revealed on social media yesterday. There are no South Africans in the ODI team of the year. Rabada finished the year as the world’s leading wicket-taker in Test cricket, taking 52 wickets at a remarkable average of 20.07. Kohli was named as captain of both the ODI and Test sides.  ICC Men’s Test Team of the Year (in batting order): 1. Tom Latham (New Zealand)
2. Dimuth Karunaratne (Sri Lanka)
3. Kane Williamson (New Zealand)
4. Virat Kohli (India, captain)
5. Henry Nicholls (New Zealand)
6. Rishabh Pant (India, wkt)
7. Jason Holder (Windies)
8. Kagiso Rabada (South Africa)
9. Nathan Lyon (Australia)
10. Jasprit Bumrah (India)
11. Mohammad Abbas (Pakistan) ICC Men’s ODI team of the year (in batting order): 1. Rohit Sharma (India)
2. Jonny Bairstow (England)
3. Virat Kohli (India, captain)
4. Joe Root (England)
5. Ross Taylor (New Zealand)
6. Jos Buttler (England, wkt)
7. Ben Stokes (England)
8. Mustafizur Rahman (Bangladesh)
9. Rashid Khan (Afghanistan)
10. Kuldeep Yadav (India)
11. Jasprit Bumrah (India). — Sport24.