The Chronicle Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter
POLICE in Matabeleland South have arrested a Chiredzi man who attempted to smuggle into South Africa 30 kilogrammes of copper cables valued at $2 800 and stashed in a radio speaker. Bornwell Fathi, who was travelling to South Africa last Friday, was arrested by alert police officers at the Beitbridge Border Post who caught him trying to dodge a scanner. Criminal Investigation Department (CID) spokesperson Detective Inspector Portia Chinho said suspicious officers approached the suspect following his dodgy behaviour and interrogated him. On failure to give satisfactory answers, they took his speaker for scanning and 30.209 kilogrammes of copper were discovered inside the speaker. “CID Minerals Flora and Fauna Unit (MFFU) Beitbridge arrested Bornwell Fathi for smuggling of copper. Circumstances are that, the suspect was aboard a South African bound bus and upon arrival at the border post, all the passengers disembarked from the bus and took their luggage to a scanner. “The suspect who was carrying a radio speaker did not go to the scanner; instead he went back to the bus prompting alert detectives to approach him. The suspect failed to give satisfactory explanation pertaining to his actions, resulting in the detectives taking the speaker to the scanner. It was discovered that the speaker contained copper weighing 30.209 kilogrammes valued at $2 869,” she said. Det Insp Chinho said the suspect is linked to a ring involved in a spate of copper cable theft cases. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police would like to warn would be offenders of theft and vandalism of public utilities and infrastructure that the police will not fold their arms whilst they wreak havoc and cripple essential services,” she said. “For more information, please contact CID Minerals Flora and Fauna Unit stations located across the country, any nearest Police station, National Complaints Desk on (0242) 703631 or use Police Hotlines, suggestion boxes and WhatsApp platforms.” — @winnie_masara.