The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent 
POLICE in Bulawayo have expressed concern over rampant drug abuse in schools and urged teachers to report all suspected cases. Selling of drugs at the door steps of schools’ is reportedly resulting in pupils smuggling the substance into classrooms and behaving in a wayward manner. In an interview yesterday ahead of today’s start of the First School Term, Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango said teachers should play a leading role in fighting substance abuse. “Schools have opened and most of the kids spend their time in school. As police we believe that teachers play an important role in moulding children. Most children who are abusing drugs do so in the school environment. We believe teachers have an important role of monitoring children’s behaviours and if they suspect that some of them are abusing drugs, they should report to us,” she said. Chief Insp Simango said drugs of concern include broncleer, popularly known as bronco, dagga and cakes laced with drugs which have previously been confiscated during arrest of drug peddlers. She said a multi-stakeholders approach is required in addressing drug abuse in the city. “We have done a lot of campaigns to address the drug abuse problem in Bulawayo. We have engaged parents to report the suspected cases as the alleged drug peddlers are part of the community. To rid society of such criminals calls for everyone’s participation because drugs are a threat to society. Some of the children who abuse drugs are also involved in criminal activities,” she said. In December, a police officer from Bulawayo undergoing disciplinary action for allegedly deserting the force was arrested with his wife and three others for running a drug cartel that reportedly sold dangerous substances to clients that included school children. In the same month the Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Bulawayo Cde Judith Ncube raised alarm over substance abuse in schools stating that some pupils end up attacking teachers. – @nqotshili