The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
FORMER national team midfielder Johannes Ngodzo and Try Ncube will be in charge of Bulawayo City FC’s pre-season training which starts next week, as the municipal club hunts for a substantive head coach. Head coach Bekithemba Ndlovu is reportedly on his way to Highlanders where he will join Mandla Mpofu as assistant coaches to Madinda Ndlovu. Jerry Sibanda, the Bulawayo City FC chairman, said his executive would meet next week to discuss, among other issues, the head coach’s position. “We’ve read in the press that Bekithemba Ndlovu is going to Highlanders and should that happen, the guys who were his assistants last season Try Ncube and Johannes Ngodzo will be in charge of the team when pre-season training starts,” said Sibanda. “We have an executive meeting next week where we will discuss pre-season matters, which include player contracts and the head coach issue.” Bekithemba Ndlovu, who was elevated to the head coach’s role following the sacking of Amini Soma-Phiri due to poor results last season, failed to save Bulawayo City from sinking despite a late charge. He was Madinda Ndlovu’s preferred assistant when the Bosso legend was appointed technical manager at Highlanders last season, but the former was offered the head coach’s job at How Mine but the club folded before the start of the 2018 season. Bekithemba, who guided the Young Warriors to last year’s final of the Cosafa Cup in Zambia where they eventually lost on penalties to South Africa, appears to have dumped Bulawayo City. Both Ngodzo, who guided Bantu Rovers to the Zifa Southern Region Division One Soccer League championship in 2016, and Ncube, who boasts of First Division experience, are capable of assembling a squad that can effectively compete for a promotional ticket. Bulawayo City lost defensive midfielder Rainsome Pavari to Premiership champions FC Platinum, central midfielder Sipho Ndlovu to Chicken Inn and anchorman Tatenda Tavengwa, who has reportedly joined Harare City. They have managed to tie down skipper and defender Zibusiso Sibanda. — @ZililoR