The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter
A MURDER suspect who absconded to South Africa after allegedly fatally stabbing the family maid 10 times for spurning his sexual advances, committed suicide in the neighbouring country. Vincent Tinashe Chikoore (42) of Gwabalanda suburb in Bulawayo was facing a murder charge in connection with the death of Dudzai Hungwe. He allegedly asked Hungwe to have sex with him when his mother was away. When the woman refused, Chikoore got angry and a scuffle ensued between them resulting in him allegedly stabbing the now deceased 10 times using a kitchen knife. Hungwe was stabbed four times in the chest, once on the abdomen, twice on the arm, once in the back of the head and twice on the left palm leading to her death. Chikoore allegedly committed the offence on December 31 in 2015. He had been on the run since 2016 after skipping the border in violation of his bail conditions. Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Martin Makonese granted Chikoore $100 bail pending trial in April 2016. As part of the bail conditions, Chikoore was ordered to surrender his passport to the Assistant Registrar of the High Court and to reside at his given address until the matter was finalised. He was also ordered to report once a week at the ZRP Homicide Section at Bulawayo Central Police Station. Chief Public Prosecutor Mrs Tariro Rosa Takuva confirmed to the Chronicle yesterday that Chikoore had committed suicide. She said a warrant of arrest was issued against Chikoore after he fled the country. “The suspect was facing a murder charge and had been on bail. He, however, skipped the border to South Africa where he is alleged to have committed suicide. The incident occurred last week and we understand he has since been buried,” said Mrs Takuva. In papers before the court, Chikoore allegedly stabbed Hungwe on December 31 in 2015 shortly after the family had moved to its lodgings in Gwabalanda suburb.
Chikoore claimed that he stabbed Hungwe, killing her instantly, after she had seduced him.