The Chronicle Takudzwa Chitsiga, Harare Bureau
ONE of the iconic football clubs of the ’80s in the domestic Premiership, Cam and Motor, have found their way back into the Zifa Northern Region Division One League. The club, which has changed identities from Eiffel Flats, Eiffel Wildcats and Rio Tinto, used to be a powerhouse on the local scene. In 1983, they were beaten to the league championship by Dynamos because of an inferior goal difference after they had finished the season with the same number of points as the Glamour Boys. They lost only one game in Division Two last year. Team manager, Bismas Mpala, said they have what it takes to compete in the Northern Region Division One League. “We are going to do our best and we are hopeful we can go all the way to produce other players like Kaitano Tembo, Raphael Phiri and Cuthbert Malajila (who all come from Kadoma) to mention but a few,’’ he said. “I don’t think we are here to add numbers but rather to compete and after 10 games we will be in a better position to see where we will be standing. “We are aware that we will have a derby against Golden Valley but ours is a brand and we cannot count them seriously and even though they were in a better league in the past few years, they know we are the real deal.’’ The team is under the guidance of Mhone Masane and assisted by Roy Mudyanyama. Another newly-promoted side, FC National Mbare, have also vowed to make an impact in the league. “As a new baby we are not too optimistic to say that we can challenge for honours but our aim is to survive relegation,’’ said treasurer Godfrey Kepekepe. ‘’Then we will see how it goes the next season. We have managed to come a long way and our progress can say it all and we have some committed players and staff. “We formed the team in 2016 when we joined Harare Province Division Three and managed to win the title in our maiden year to be in Division Two in 2017 season which we finished fourth with Beta X1 taking the honours and this year it was our year.’’ The team is under the guidance of former Dynamos players Romeo Kabesha and Evans Gwekwerere.