The Chronicle Esinathy Sibanda, Business Reporter
THE Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans’ Association (ZNLWVA) Bulawayo province has embarked on a registration process of all its members who participated in the liberation struggle to undergo a business training programme. The training is being spearheaded by the National Business Council of Zimbabwe (NBCZ) with registration being done in the city’s 11 districts on February 2 from 9AM. NBCZ has kick-started the implementation of the nationwide capacity building and training programmes for war veterans which seek to capacitate them as they venture into sustainable income-generating projects in line with Government’s Vision 2030. “We call upon every war veteran, war collaborator, non cadres, widows, widowers and children of the war veterans, restricted and trained but not vetted cadres to come and fill in registration forms on Saturday from 9AM at their respective districts,” said ZNLWVA provincial secretary Luke Mpofu. “In this census, all former combatants, restrictees, detainees and war collaborators and their dependants will be categorised and incorporated into one data base for purposes of basic business management training.” The provincial training will commence on February 14 after the vetting exercise is completed at district level. The war vets would be trained on basic business management skills following which there would be a selection to come up with the final list of people who will receive funding for projects. The projects, aimed at financial inclusion and empowerment, will be funded by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe and other different institutions. NBCZ president Dr Keith Guzah recently said war veterans, women and youths were part of the all-important matrix of making Zimbabwe great again and should be included in projects that grow the economy. “We are heeding the call from President Mnangagwa that ‘Zimbabwe is open for business’ and want to make sure that key constituencies such as the war vets, women and youths are well equipped to be meaningful participants in the economy under the new dispensation,” he said. Dr Guzah said NBCZ would conduct a basic nationwide census to establish data on the number of war veterans, women and youths.
Manicaland province started their enumeration on January 23. — @esinathy_essira.