The Chronicle Rashiwe Murisa, Harare Bureau
ZIFA technical director Wilson Mtekede believes Zimbabwean football will benefit immensely from the new trends of football management unveiled at the Caf technical seminar in Egypt this week. Mtekede was one of the 50 technical directors from across the continent who attended the three-day seminar in Cairo. The seminar was organised by Caf Technical Department with the support of Fifa to inculcate both the technical and tactical aspects of the game to participants with a view to improve the continent’s football. The three-day seminar, which ended yesterday, is a key milestone towards re-establishing the Caf coaching courses, and will also equip participants with the right tools to develop coaching and grassroots football in their countries. The meeting also resolved that the suspended Caf A courses resume in March. “This is a very capacitating workshop that brings all Caf member associations and technical directors together in order to give direction to programmes and updates on football trends. “The meetings are held periodically. The workshop was meant to clear the suspense of the previously suspended Caf license. “After the retraining of instructors and signing of the convention in March, the courses will then resume. “Caf is committed to the development of the game of football on the continent hence these reforms that are aligned to the trends in other developed Confederations like Uefa” said Mtekede. Topics that were covered included the role of the Technical Director, the Organisation of the Technical Development Department, Coaching Convention, Fifa Forward Application and Plan among others. Speaking on the sidelines of the seminar, Caf Deputy General Secretary, Anthony Baffoe said they wanted to see development on the continent. “The main objective of this seminar is to have a common vision across all the MAs in Football development. “We need to make sure that all the principal actors involved in football development share a unified vision regarding the content, evaluation criteria and coaches’ recruitment. “It is very important to have almost all the MAs represented at the seminar”.