The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
THE National University of Science and Technology (Nust) has dispelled speculation that it wants to increase its fees by more than 100 percent. This comes following a proposed fees structure that is circulating on social media alleging that the university intends to hike its fees. Nust acting director of communication and marketing Mrs Lindiwe Nyoni yesterday disowned the proposed university’s fee structure circulating on social media saying it had nothing to do with the institution. She said the university has not increased its fees. “I’ve seen the proposed fees structure that is circulating on social media. The university has nothing to do with the proposed fees,” said Mrs Nyoni. “Even if we have an intention of increasing fees, we would first apply to the parent ministry which is expected to approve or disapprove the fees hike.” She urged the Nust community to seek the university’s position through its official communication channels and avoid peddling misinformation through social media platforms. However, a reliable source said a fees revision committee met recently to deliberate on fees increase. “The committee resolved that the fees being paid by the students had been eroded by inflation. Therefore, the university should revise upwards the fees structure subject to approval by the Ministry,” said the source. In the proposed fees structure which the university disowned, the lowest paying undergraduate student would pay $1 695 from $465 while the highest paying student would pay $1 815 from $605 for conventional students. The proposal also states that the least paying undergraduate student in parallel class should pay $1 695 from $565 while proposing $2 250 for the highest paying student from $750. The new fees proposal document shows that the university intends to increase its levies while tuition remained unchanged. The fees proposal document states that students who might be having difficulties adjusting to its new fees should be encouraged to apply for edu-loans. Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Minister Professor Amon Murwira recently said Government would not allow higher and tertiary institutions to increase fees without its approval. – @nqotshili