The Chronicle World Environment Day – 5 June THE Day was established by the United Nations General Assembly in 1972 to mark the opening of the Stockholm Conference on the Human Environment. The aim is to encourage people to become active supporters of sustainable and equitable living, to promote awareness and an understanding that communities play a central role in changing attitudes towards environmental issues. Zimbabwe normally holds an Expo where stakeholders showcase their initiatives and innovations that are environmentally friendly. World Desertification Day – 17 June The United Nations General Assembly acknowledge that desertification and drought are a global problem as they affect all regions of the world and require joint commitment of individuals and organisations to work together in minimising this problem. Zimbabwe emphasises on sustainable land management, water harvesting, crop rotation as well as afforestation programmes in order to reduce land degradation and drought impacts Clean up Zimbabwe Month – September The month of September has been set aside as the Clean-up month during which anti-litter activities are intensified. Some of the anti-litter activities which characterise this month include; raising awareness, roadblocks, clean up campaigns, amongst other activities. The main purpose of all this is to create a clean, safe and healthy environment. Zero Tolerance To Litter, My Environment, My Pride. Play your part to keep the environment clean. International Day for the preservation of the Ozone Layer – 16 September The Montreal Protocol was adopted on 16 September 1987 in response to the revelation that chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and other ozone-depleting substances used in aerosols, cooling and refrigeration systems, and many other items were tearing a hole in the ozone layer and allowing dangerous ultraviolet radiation to flood through. Under the Protocol, Governments agreed to co-operate in phasing out production and use of chemicals that deplete the ozone layer, which are also greenhouse gases and major contributors to global warming. National Tree Planting Day – First Saturday of December The first Saturday of December each year, is a day when all citizens of Zimbabwe participate in tree planting activities, and marks the beginning of the tree planting season up to the end of summer. This day commenced in 1980 and it is a national and patriotic duty for every individual take part in tree planting and care activities. The President of the Republic of Zimbabwe leads the event showing tree planting commitment from the highest levels. Plant a tree every year. Get involved as communities and organise local level activities for the observance of these environmental days. It is encouraged to think globally and act locally because environmental issues are intertwined and sustainable utilisation of the environment depends on people working together. – Send your feedback to; eep@ema.co.zw, like us on Facebook: Environmental Management Agency and twitter:@EMAeep or visit our website www.ema.co.zw. Alternatively, call us on: Tel 086 77006244 and Toll-free 08080028; or use our WhatsApp platform 0779565707. We are ready to listen.