The Chronicle Mthabisi Tshuma, Showbiz Reporter
THE second edition of the Madlela Day, a dedication to award-winning musician Madlela Skhobokhobo’s success, has gone bigger as he took his act deeper into the rural areas of Gwanda, his home area. After successful inaugural celebrations held in 2017 where over 2 000 fans graced the event, Madlela has lived up to his promise of making the second edition bigger and better. So as to accommodate fans based in rural areas, Madlela held his Madlela Day gig celebrations on Christmas eve at Manama Shopping Centre, where a bumper crowd thronged the venue and partied until the wee hours of Christmas Day. Fans were not ready to let him go off stage after having a taste of what they described as one of his “best performances”. Madlela said he realised that there was an absence of quality entertainment for the rural audience therefore the need to accommodate them at all costs. “I have a connection with the Gwanda community thus it’s only fair that I take the gig all around Gwanda and nearby places. This is to appreciate them for giving birth to me as an artiste and because my fan base isn’t only in towns and cities. We need to reach even to the remotest areas to appreciate their solidarity on us as the Dlelas label,” he said. During the show, high rising Gwanda artiste, Zhezhingtons opened the stage for Madlela and his band with an exceptional performance which clearly highlighted how he has risen to fame in the mining town. Also to share the stage with Madlela on the memorable day were up and coming artistes Desire Sijiye and rapper Rapelang. This year the Madlela Day will be held in Halisupi, an area located south of Manama on Christmas Eve according to Madlela. He said he hopes his brand will grow through such an experience of interacting with the marginalised audience. “We believe the brand Madlela keeps growing and whatever we do contributes to the growth of the brand. We are busy with the first video of the second album. We hope as story tellers, that the video will have an impact to our fan base in a big way, “he said. — @mthabisi_mthire.