The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS’ pre-season target Zambian striker Peter Nyirenda is expected to arrive in Bulawayo this morning to conclude contract negotiations. Nyirenda is among three players Bosso are keen on signing to complete their 2019 squad that heads off to a pre-season camp next week. Nyirenda (21) turned out for New Monze Swallows last season and trained with Bosso during the club’s targeted trials held on January 5 and 6 at Crescent Sports Club. Highlanders’ chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube said: “He is coming to conclude negotiations. He will be joining the rest of the squad once all paperwork has been sorted”. Although Dube could not elaborate on Nyirenda’s contract details, it is believed the Zambian will be offered a two-year deal. Bosso have “ring-fenced” their players by offering them minimum two-year contracts for fear of losing them. Besides Nyirenda, the targeted trials also saw Aces Youth Soccer Academy’s 20-year-old striker Russell Chifura impressing head coach Madinda Ndlovu. Ndlovu has given the executive his wish list to replace players that left the club. Bosso lost the forward pair of Newman Sianchali and Gabriel Nyoni to Caps United, while skipper Honest Moyo’s destination is unknown. The club, however, managed to retain most key players, who include goalkeeper and Soccer Star of the Year finalist Ariel Sibanda, defender Peter Muduhwa, who reportedly turned down offers from city rivals Chicken Inn and cash-flush Ngezi Platinum Stars, and defender Tendai Ndlovu. Bosso also snapped up winger Cleopas Kapupurika from Dynamos as a direct replacement for Nyoni. The front line was also strengthened by bringing on board former Young Warriors’ players Bukhosi “Zakhu” Sibanda and Prince Dube, who had unfruitful stints in South Africa and are keen to revive their careers. Former national Under-20 defensive midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku and utility player Mbekezeli Sibanda, who had a brief stint in Slovakia, are among Bosso’s new signings. Goalkeepers Wellington Muuya, formerly with Bulawayo City, and ex-Mutare City Rovers’ Alfred Chinanha have also been targeted to provide stiff competition to Ariel Sibanda. — @Zililo