The Chronicle Mabasa Sasa in Astana, Kazakhstan
President Emmerson Mnangagwa wooed potential investors from Kazakhstan with his sales pitch for Brand Zimbabwe at a meeting organised by businesspersons in Astana on Sunday. Representatives of at least 30 major firms — drawn from the energy, pharmaceuticals, mining, machine building, agriculture, aerospace and financial services sectors, among others — invited President Mnangagwa to the working lunch. President Mnangagwa, who was invited to Kazakhstan by that country’s leader President Nursultan Nazarbayev, said the Eurasian nation represented a “new frontier” in his administration’s drive to engage and re-engage the world. The Head of State and Government and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces said, “I wish to thank the business community of Kazakhstan for having organised this event at the sidelines of my first visit here, to lay a firm foundation for economic and investment co-operation with your beautiful country. “Guided by our strategy to ‘open new frontiers’ under my Government’s Engagement and Re-engagement Policy, we are committed to deepen and strengthen relations with the Government and people of Kazakhstan . . . “We are determined to improve the quality and standard of living of our people under our vision to become a middle-income economy by 2030. We extend the opportunity for you to partner us on this journey.” President Mnangagwa said Vision 2030 could not be achieved with strong private sector participation and foreign direct investment. As such, he said, Government would continue to steer through “comprehensive economic reforms which foster a conducive business and investment climate”. “Let me assure you that my Government is entrenching a disciplined, consistent and predictable business and policy environment which is free from all forms of corruption. “All investments are therefore safe and private property rights respected. Foreigners are free to repatriate their investment proceeds, in accordance with our laws,” he said. Zimbabwe’s leader continued: “The private sector from Kazakhstan is, therefore, invited to come on board and take advantage of the possibilities in our country. Zimbabwe is open for business and dialogue.” He highlighted investor opportunities in agriculture, mining, energy, pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, ICTs, and transport and logistics, among others. “My Government is reforming State-owned enterprises and parastatals, which provides investment prospects for potential investors. I invite you all to take advantage of the opening up of our economy and invest in my country,” he said. President Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe’s central, land-linked geographical location made it ideal for development as a hub to enter the wider African market. “Each ministry in my Government has detailed investment brochures and an open door policy to receive your enquiries, and we are developing a one-stop centre where all your questions relating to investment can be answered,” the President said. Apart from strengthening commercial ties with Kazakhstan, President Mnangagwa on Sunday also embarked on cultural diplomacy as he toured the Baiterek Monument, National Museum and Presidential Library in Astana. He also met President Nazarbayev at the Presidential Palace in the capital.