The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS FC players are set to undergo medical examinations when the team regroups on Monday to start their pre-season training. The medicals, according to Highlanders’ chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube, will help the technical team design a training programme that suits all players. “We will regroup to put our pre-season plans into motion. The medical examinations will probably start on Monday. Basically on medicals, they’ll do heart rate checkup and weight checks to see whether players have any sports injuries that are underlying. “The basic idea is that you want players to train in a way that benefits the player’s body. This is why you want to understand their cardio after having taken a breather, measure muscle density or thickness and see where they need to bring all players to the same fitness levels before doing football work,” said Dube. “First week it will be aerobics and getting power to increase intensity and breathing ability. This medical examination is also meant to avoid exacerbating injuries. If a player goes in with a hidden injury and then they are loaded without them being taken through a recovery process, it gets worse,” he said. Bosso began their 2019 pre-season programme a fortnight ago with targeted players’ training exercises that was attended by Zambian striker Peter Nyirenda, whom Highlanders want to sign. It was also attended by utility player Mbekezeli Sibanda, Aces Youth Soccer Academy striker Russell Chifura and goalkeeper Wellington Muuya as well as Alfred Chinanha. Sibanda has already signed a contract with the club. Highlanders are expected to conclude negotiations with Bulawayo City for the services of Muuya, who has a year left on his contract. The deal is likely to see either Prosper Matutu or Nedrick Madeya crossing the floor to the local authority bankrolled club. Nyirenda is expected to arrive from Zambia at the weekend or early next week to join the rest of the squad. Dube said they are also working on tying up deals with three players whose names will be announced in due course. It is highly likely that the trio is Nyirenda, Chifura and Muuya. Bosso are done with Chinanha’s contract negotiations. “We are still pursuing three more targets as identified and recommended by the technical manager. We will only be in a position to name them if and when the processes are successful and deals are completed. For now, all remains work in progress,” said Dube. Highlanders are almost done with their Premiership squad signings, having secured the backbone of the team. Bosso have managed to tie down experienced goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda, defenders Peter Muduhwa and Tendai Ndlovu, brought on board central midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku as well as forwards Prince Dube and Bukhosi Sibanda. Other members deemed to be key figures of the squad include Phiri, the central defence pair of Irvine Moyo and Andrew Mbemba, left-back Mbongeni Ndlovu, midfielders Adrian Silla, Ben Musaka as well as forward Tinashe Makanda. Bosso lost forwards Gabriel Nyoni and Newman Sianchali as well as left-back Honest Moyo. — @ZililoR