The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS and former national team coach Madinda Ndlovu believes a supreme mental strength will be key to FC Platinum’s victory against Orlando Pirates who they play on Saturday in a Caf Champions League match. Zimbabwean champions, FC Platinum face South African giants Orlando Pirates in their first group match at Bulawayo’s ceremonial home of soccer Barbourfields Stadium on Saturday. Ndlovu, one of the country’s senior gaffers believes FC Platinum have an ability to upset the Soweto giants. “If you look at it, South Africa have better organised football and good financial support. However, in Zimbabwe, in terms of individual talent I believe we are superior. Orlando Pirates have been playing well but Norman Mapeza has worked hard to assemble his team. If they are mentally stable they have an ability to upset Orlando Pirates. It is all about mental strength. What I know is that South African teams prepare well and it’s that preparation which spurs them. I almost beat Kaizer Chiefs while I was at Township Rollers in Botswana, but what I realised was that those guys win because they are better prepared,” said Ndlovu. The platinum miners chose Barbourfields Stadium over the National Sports Stadium after Caf condemned Zvishavane’s Mandava Stadium. Under Mapeza, FC Platinum are in their second appearance in the Caf Champions League and this is their first time to be in the group stages. Last season FC Platinum failed to make it beyond the first round of the preliminary round. The Zimbabwean champions have a mammoth assignment as they are grouped with defending continental champions Esperance, South African giants Orlando Pirates and Guinea’s Horoya. FC Platinum have what looks like a mature squad, with the experience of their players set to count during the group stage. The Zvishavane side will bank on the likes of goalkeeper Petros Mhari, national team defender and Castle Lager Soccer Star of the Year finalist Kevin Moyo, midfielders Devon Chafa, Edwin Madhananga, Kelvin Madzongwe and Rahman Kutsanzira as well as forwards Mkhokheli Dube and Lameck Nhamo to lead them past the group stage. — @ZililoR