The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
POLICE have intercepted a truck that was transporting 10 head of cattle suspected to have been stolen from a farm in West Nicholson and headed to Bulawayo. Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson, Chief Inspector Philisani Ndebele said the vehicle was intercepted in Kafusi on Tuesday night and two suspects were arrested after a high speed chase of about 30 kilometres from Manama area. He said Justine Tlou (25) of Zezani in Beitbridge and Tsepang Sibanda (33) of Tuli in Gwanda were spotted by community members while transporting the beasts along Nhwali-Manama Road who then alerted the police. “Some community members were driving around in Manama area looking for their missing cattle. They met a Mercedes Benz truck which was carrying some cattle and they tried to stop it in order to find out whether the cattle which were being transported did not belong to them. “Tlou and Sibanda who were travelling in the vehicle didn’t stop but they fled. The community members then rushed to Manama Police Base to inform the police. The police then pursued the truck using the vehicle of their informers. They caught up with the truck in Kafusi area,” he said. Chief Insp Ndebele said the police then escorted the truck to the police station and requested to see paper work permitting Tlou and Sibanda to transport the beasts. He said the police noticed some anomalies in the clearance forms and upon investigations learnt that the 10 beasts were missing from a farm in West Nicholson area. He said Tlou and Sibanda were arrested and are now assisting police with investigations. He said the cattle have since been returned to the owner. Chief Insp Ndebele appealed to farmers to ensure that they closely supervised their animals in order to avoid losses. “As police we would like to appeal to farmers to ensure that they closely supervise their animals to avoid losing them to thieves. In some cases farmers drive their animals to grazing areas and just leave them there without supervision while others don’t pen them at night and leave them to wander around. “In doing this farmers will be exposing their animals. It’s our duty to apprehend criminals and prevent crime but farmers also have a responsibility when it comes to protecting their property. “We also appeal to community members to inform us when they see cattle being transported especially at night. In this case we are grateful as community members assisted us with information that led to the arrest of the suspects,” he said.— @DubeMatutu