The Chronicle Showbiz Reporter
UP-and-coming gospel artiste Christopher Nkomazana has urged gospel musicians to take advantage of their churches for marketing their music as this has proved effective in his latest offering. Nkomazana who released an eight-track album called Sengibuyela Kuwe end of last year, said the reception was good especially from his church Roman Catholic. He added that the album talks about promoting peace in the country and the world. The tracks to look out for are, the title of the album Sengibuyela Kuwe, Phendukani and Sicela Ukuthula Ezweni which talks about peace. “I first promoted my album in my church and the reception was very good. People even today still want the album and I’m surprised. I urge up-and-coming gospel artistes to use churches as their platform to market their music because it starts from people who know you. My fellow congregants in the Roman Catholic in Luveve have been supportive. Even the local people from Luveve have been very helpful in uplifting my music. “The album talks about promoting peace. For example, as a country we’re coming from violent protests but peace is needed in the country because violence doesn’t solve anything,” said Nkomazana. He highlighted that working with the late music producer Joe Maseko was a blessing and it uplifted him as an up-and-coming artiste. “I worked with the late Joe on this album and quite frankly the guy helped me a lot as an artiste. He advised me on many issues on this album and took my input also. He was such a dedicated music producer,” said Nkomazana He heaped praises on Skyz Metro FM for uplifting local music but challenged them to give up and coming gospel artistes a platform to shine so that their music be recognised by many people in the city. The gospel artiste said the album was dedicated to his late father and brother who always stood by him through thick and thin. Nkomazana also urged emerging artists to be patient and always strive to maintain originality in their works.