The Chronicle Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter
HYENAS and lions are wreaking havoc in Tsholotsho, killing livestock and terrorising people. Affected villagers said they had been driven into poverty as the wild animals are plundering their source of wealth. Wards 2, 3, 4 and 9 are the worst affected and villagers say they now fear for their lives as the stray lions and hyenas were becoming increasingly daring. Tsholotsho Rural District Council chairperson Councillor Esau Siwela said about 89 cattle and 82 goats were reported to have been killed in the past two months. He said the perennial problem seems to be worse this year as villagers have already lost dozens of livestock in a space of two months only. “The stray hyenas and the lions are so daring to come into villagers’ kraals and attack livestock, cattle, goats. Villagers have spotted the predators even in day light. “I am receiving reports of goats and sheep being killed in one night and this definitely needs an immediate intervention,” said Clr Siwela. He said during meetings with the council environment department, communities pleaded for measures to be taken to end the problem. “ZimParks officials from Hwange have come to the ground to assess the situation and the community awaits their feedback because people were even suggesting that they trap the lions and hyenas on their own at their own risk,” he said. A villager, Mr Limukani Ncube said some parents have stopped their children from attending school, fearing for their lives. “School children are at risk as many of them walk long distances to school and are supposed to leave home as early as 5AM. Many of them have resorted to going to school later during the day or not going at all than risk their lives as the hyenas will still be moving around the villages, around that time,” said Mr Ncube. “We’re appealing to government to intervene through the national parks on this issue which has greatly affected villagers. These animals should be captured and put back into national parks where they belong.” Mr Ncube said people were now desperate due to the hyena attacks. “Livestock is our source of livelihood and such losses are giving us sleepless nights and we wish something could be done to bring peace into our communities,” he said. — @winnie_masara.