The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls
The gospel music starved Victoria Falls community could soon be enjoying gospel music from their own following the launch of an album by a local budding artiste. Victoria Falls boasts of genres such as imbube and traditional dance where groups perform to entertain tourists but had until last month not tasted ‘local’ gospel from its own sons and daughters. A 23-year-old singer Munyaradzi Mhazo released an eight track album titled Recovery which has been welcomed by the resort town residents. The album features Mathias Mhere. The young artiste who leads a six-member group Divine Harvesters has said he needs just five years to challenge seasoned gospel musicians. Better known as the Gospel Minister, Mhazo launched his album at VOBI Ministries Church in Victoria Falls. Speaking during the launch of the album, Mhazo said he is inspired by Mhere and Charles Charamba. “My target is to take gospel music to a higher level. I did the title track Recovery with Mathias Mhere after releasing the first one called Zvasiyana with nine tracks. In the next five years I want to be like Pastor Charles Charamba. I’m looking for collabos and have spoken to Pastor Charamba and Mhere about working together,” he said. Mhazo said he pens his own music. Tracks on the album Recovery include My Redeemer, Tariro and Zita Rangu. Mhazo’s manager Obvious Ngwenya said the young gospel musician is destined for greater heights. “We want to do collabos and we are talking to a number of seasoned artistes. We also want to do a video. Our biggest challenge is lack of resources as we have to hire equipment and transport whenever he has a show. “I want him to do more shows so that we market his music,” said Ngwenya. Recovery is the second album by the young musician who moved to Victoria Falls from Hwange in 2016 and released the album Zvasiyana. The album has songs such as Ndakatendeuka, Moses Wangu, Mweya Mutsvene and Maziso EMweya. Mhazo recorded at Gangster Productions and was helped by VOBI Voices and Voice of Worship to launch the new album. He is also working on a single which will feature Calchester K from PHD Ministries. — @ncubeleon