The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
FC Platinum shift base to Bulawayo today in preparation for their Group B Total Caf Champions League game against Horoya AC of Guinea set for Barbourfields Stadium on Saturday. Both sides will be searching for their first group match win after they drew one and lost one game each in Group B. FC Platinum and Horoya are tied on one point, while Orlando Pirates of South Africa and Esperance of Tunisia are tied on four points. FC Platinum held Orlando Pirates to a 0-0 draw in their opening pool match at Barbourfields before falling 0-2 to Esperance in their next game and will be aiming to bag maximum points against Horoya. Horoya drew 1-1 with Esperance in their opening game and then slumped to a 3-0 drubbing by Orlando Pirates. The platinum miners, whose game against Orlando Pirates was played before a capacity crowd, will also be banking on “home” support to rally behind their lads. Against Orlando Pirates, the majority of fans cheered the South Africans and it’s highly unlikely that Horoya will enjoy similar backing on Saturday. “We are coming to our second home on Tuesday. We had a great stay in Bulawayo the last time and we are hopeful that the people of Bulawayo and Zimbabwe at large will come in their numbers for this important game,” said Chido Chizondo, FC Platinum’s spokesperson. Against Esperance, FC Platinum were ultra-defensive, trying to minimise damage and hoping to get Esperance on breaks. They used two attacking players, Mkhokheli Dube and Gift Mbweti, four defensive midfielders Devon Chafa, Kelvin Madzongwe, Rainsome Pavari and Edwin Madhananga, who did well to close space. The back four had Lawrence Mhlanga, Gift Bello, William Stima and Elvis Moyo. Whoever wins on Saturday will bounce back into possible contention to qualify for the quarter-finals of the tournament. Caf Champions League Group B fixtures Saturday, February 2: -FC Platinum v Horoya AC (Barbourfields Stadium, 3pm) -Orlando Pirates v Esperance (Orlando Stadium) Table
P W D L F A GD Pts
Orlando Pirates 2 1 1 0 3 0 3 4
Esperance 2 1 1 0 3 1 2 4
FC Platinum 2 0 1 1 0 2 -2 1
Horoya 2 0 1 1 4 1 -3 1
— @ZililoR