The Chronicle Sports Reporter
WITH less than a month before the CANA Zone IV Swimming Championships in Namibia, Zimbabwe’s team manager, Tracey Doorman, says selected swimmers have gone a gear up in their preparations for the competition. Over 20 swimmers are expected to represent the country in the championships from February 16 to 20 in Windhoek. Doorman said most of the swimmers were now focusing on specific events, also taking advantage of the few remaining local competitions to fine-tune their preparations. “All the team members are in training in the galas that are still on although those are very few and far between because we are drawing to the end of our local season. “But, they are in training and they are training for specific events now because we have, obviously, done all the entries as far as the events can go,” said Doorman. Lorna Riley and Tim Phiri are the travelling coaches and the team is scheduled to leave on February 15 for Namibia. Angola, Botswana, South Africa, Namibia, Malawi and the hosts are some of the countries expected to grace the event. “We would expect our swimmers to give their normal 100 percent…It’s very difficult to sort of comment in terms of medal prospects or anything like that. “I know that our relay teams will be competitive. ‘’But in terms of individual medals, because we have no idea of the other swimmers that will be there or their level, we really can’t say but we know that our swimmers will do their best,” said Doorman The championships are also serving as a qualifier for the FINA World Championships later this year. Zimbabwe Aquatic Union president Mary Kloppers said with most of their senior swimmers based outside the country will miss the championships but pointed out that they still have other qualifying events they can compete in. “Unfortunately, none of our senior swimmers are going so we won’t benefit from that. They are out of the country, now we can’t afford to bring them in from America and the UK. “That’s why they are not here. “It’s one of the most prestigious events in the region and within Africa it’s the biggest competition,” said Kloppers. Team Zimbabwe
Boys: Onesimus Ngwenya, Sean Reilly, Mufaro Ngwenya, Cory Werrett, Brett Jones, Kallen Wilke, Paul Retzlaff, Tait Mills, Quintin Tayali, Jordan Smith. Girls: Matida Musere, Onye Onovo, Mkhuseli Mahobele, Venekai Dhemba, Kiara Goodinson, Saira Ramajan, Paige V D Westhuizen, Hannah Mitchell, Ella Allardice, Chiedza Mtetwa, Courtney Brown, Claire Melrose, Amy Doorman, Ashley Makuwa.
Additional Open Water Swimmers: Gemma Schonken, Amy Kluckow, Jodie Hawkes, Connor Malloch-Brown. 