The Chronicle Showbiz Correspondent
AWARD winning video producer Andy Cutta says he is enjoying married life as he can now eat well cooked meals prepared by his fashion designer wife Maita Marimo. He said their marriage has been good and he now realises that he had been eating “poison” as a bachelor. “Marriage has been good. The bachelor life is over. I don’t miss any minute of being one. I used to cook for myself and I now realise that I was eating poison. Also before I got married I’d over-work, perhaps 18 hours per day, but I’ve now got to spend time with family and wife,” said Andy Cutta. Cutta is the man behind numerous music videos such as Roki and XQ’s Alleluya, Janet Manyowa’s Ndomira Pamuri and most recently Tamy Moyo’s Tekere. He and Maita tied the knot in December last year during a private and intimate ceremony at Amanzini Restaurant in Harare. The two had dated for over a year before Andy Cutta decided to approach Maita’s family to pay bride price for her last year. According to Andy Cutta, because both families were around for the holidays, the two decided to hold a wedding ceremony for them. “We didn’t plan it. We just decided that after the lobola ceremony we should hold a wedding ceremony during that time. It was a week or two weeks tops in planning. But then since a lot of people had travelled to the country and the family was around for December, we thought we might as well do something,” he said. According to Andy Cutta, there have been angry enquiries from friends in the industry to the effect that he had married without notice as they wanted to attend. He said they should not despair as there was one big wedding being organised for April in Bulawayo. “We shall have a big wedding in April and the wedding will be in Bulawayo. Home is Bulawayo and how can I get married outside Bulawayo without my people there,” said Andy Cutta. Since the two have careers in the arts industry, Andy Cutta said they have been working together in television production. “We work together and she’s very much involved in production. The television shows that are coming up that I’m producing, she’s one of the producers. She has seen this kind of work during her time in America so it’s not something new to her,” said Andy Cutta. Turning to his plans this year, Andy Cutta said there would be more television productions than music videos, hopefully. “This year I’ll be working on a lot of television content. There are a couple of productions that we’ve lined up and we’re eyeing DStv’s BET, Zambezi Magic and ZBCtv. I can’t say right now what we’ve submitted to ZBCtv, but its reality based content,” said Andy Cutta. “Most of the stuff is being slowed down by the economic upheavals which have made it hard to produce more content. All our projects are self funded.”