The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
GOVERNMENT has said nearly $1 million is needed to complete the construction of houses for Tsholotsho villagers who were displaced by floods during the 2016/17 rainy season. Government last year allocated new stands to 300 families who were victims of Cyclone Dineo-induced floods in Tshino and Esawudweni areas in Tsholotsho North. It also offered to construct new houses for the flood victims. In an interview recently, Civil Protection Unit Director (CPU) Mr Nathan Nkomo said Government has completed constructing some of the houses but requires more funds to build all of them. Mr Nkomo said macroeconomic developments in the country have contributed to delays in the completion of the houses. “In Tshino area there are five houses which are ready for roofing meaning 159 others are now complete. And all the 164 toilets have been completed. But in Esawudweni we are looking for $219 050 to complete the construction of 155 toilets,” said Mr Nkomo. “For the remaining 69 houses we need about $690 000 to complete their construction. The required funds increased due to the market madness that occurred last year. We procure most of the material in Bulawayo and the transportation aspect makes it expensive. Otherwise if it was possible for us to mould bricks locally and use the locally available resources it was going to be a bit sustainable.” He said CPU hopes to start construction of the houses in February. The CPU director said at the moment the department is looking for more tents to accommodate villagers whose houses have not been completed. “The other issue which I observed which is worrisome is that the villagers are cutting down big trees which are supposed to serve as wind break. “One or two houses almost had their roof blown off due to winds. So I’m sure those are some of the issues that we should address with Environmental Management Agency so that they can educate people on how to use their environment,” said Mr Nkomo. – @nqotshili