The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
FC Platinum’s central midfielder Brett Amidu and Harare City striker Marlvin Gaki have joined Chicken Inn FC as part of the Bulawayo team’s mission to launch a strong Castle Lager Premier Soccer League title challenge in the new season. They join the attacking trio of Clive Augusto, Panashe Mutasa and Sipho Ndlovu, who signed two-year deals in December when Chicken Inn started the process of strengthening their side to challenge for the 2019 league title. Amidu (23) had a frustrating 2018 season at FC Platinum, with the former Dynamos player insisting on leaving the Zvishavane-based club due to lack of game time. The former Young Warriors’ player struggled for a starting place at FC Platinum where competition is rife and moving to Chicken Inn could help the once-promising star to revive his career. Gaki (24) has been brought in to add firepower to the Chicken Inn strike force. Tawengwa Hara, Chicken Inn’s secretary-general, confirmed the signing of Amidu and Gaki. “Marlvin Gaki and Brett Amidu are now Chicken Inn players and we welcome them to our family. We’ve been working around the clock to make sure that we get players on the coach’s wish list in our endeavour to beef up the squad. Very soon we shall be releasing some players as we balance the squad,” said Hara. Augusto, a winger-cum-striker, joined Chicken Inn from Ngezi Platinum Stars, with central midfielder Ndlovu coming from relegated Bulawayo City. The two players, both aged 24, were the first off-season signings that Chicken Inn coach Joey Antipas recommended and with age on their side, the duo is expected to add firepower to the Gamecocks side. Chicken Inn, who lifted the 2015 Premiership title, finished third in the 2018 campaign behind champions FC Platinum and runners-up Ngezi Platinum Stars. Antipas said his side will be challenging for the championship and wants players with firepower to soldier all the way. In 2018, inconsistency cost Chicken Inn the championship as they dropped points at crucial stages, allowing FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum Stars to turn the title race into a two-team event. “I thought we could have done much better in 2018. There were times we were also in the race and we just lost the plot, lost games we should have won or drawn. Looking forward to beefing up the squad. Some of the players right now still got it, but I don’t think they’ll be good enough because we want to challenge for the championship. So to challenge for the championship you need to bring in players who will add value to the squad. Some of the players are in the twilights of their careers, so we have to add more firepower. By firepower I mean a couple of youthful players. Football is about fighting, so we need to bring in fighters,” Antipas said. The old horses at Chicken Inn who are reaching the twilight of their careers include 37-year-old central defender Moses Jackson, midfielder Clemence Matawu (36), striker Obidiah Tarumbwa (33), defender Ben Nyahunzwi and central midfielder Simon Munawa. Nyahunzwi and Jackson have been competing in central defence alongside Guide Goddard, who spent the better part of the season on the bench. — @ZililoR