The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE Confederation of Africa Football (Caf) will send a delegation to inspect the National Sports, Barbourfields and Mandava stadia to see if they meet requirements to host continental games. At the beginning of the month, the continental football governing body condemned Mandava, home to Zimbabwe league champions FC Platinum, forcing the Zvishavane-based side to move its Total Caf Champions League group match against South African outfit Orlando Pirates to Bulawayo’s Barbourfields Stadium. Caf raised reservations about Mandava’s eligibility to host matches at this level of the competition, with fears over lighting at the stadium and the size of the media area to host an army of journalists, which usually accompany teams at this level. Zifa spokesperson Xolisani Gwesela confirmed Caf’s inspection visit. “We were told by Caf that they will be sending a delegation after the FC Platinum Caf Champions League match against Horoya which will be played on February 2. National Sports Stadium, Barbourfields and Mandava, which are Caf homologated, will be inspected, after which they will be issued with certificates in the event that they meet the required standards,” said Gwesela. Depending on the outcome of the Caf report, FC Platinum could find themselves playing their final home game against reigning African club champions Esperance at their Mandava fortress. The platinum miners, who drew 0-0 against Orlando Pirates, lost 2-0 away to Esperance and are hoping to register their first pool victory against Horoya of Guinea to keep their chances of progressing beyond the group stages alive. They need to attend to floodlights at Mandava to play Esperance in Zvishavane. Media tribune, the VIP area as well as dressing rooms at Mandava will also have to be worked on if they are to get Caf certification. The Zimbabwean champions are hopeful that since FC Platinum will play all their home group matches during the day, Mandava will meet the grade. “Bearing the huge financial investment needed at Mandava, our hope is that floodlights don’t become an issue. On their (Caf) last visit, we were told that what we had at Mandava was sufficient. In the event that Mandava isn’t certified, we will not have a problem because we’ve found a new home at Barbourfields Stadium,” said Chido Chizondo, FC Platinum’s spokesperson. —@ZililoR