The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
FIRST Lady Amai Mnangagwa who was yesterday supposed to lead the Bulawayo clean up campaign took hospital authorities by surprise when she donated goods worth thousands of dollars to Mpilo Central Hospital and the United Bulawayo Hospitals. The First Lady who could not make it to Bulawayo due to other commitments, donated medical beds, surgical gloves, drip stands, baby welcome kits as well as groceries to the two referral Hospitals through her Angel of Hope Foundation. Bulawayo Minister for Provincial Affairs, Cde Judith Ncube handed over the goods to Mpilo Central Hospital chief executive Mr Leonard Mabhandi and acting clinical director, Dr Xolani Ndlovu. “Our mother is not here but she has sent me to deliver these goods. They are from the First Lady and there is a similar donation for UBH, beds and groceries. These things were transported last night and we would like to thank her for the kind gesture,” said Cde Ncube. Mr Mabhandi thanked the First Lady for the timely donation. “When the programme started , we expected that it would focus just on the clean up campaign but we were pleasantly surprised that we had a very exciting New Year present in the form of beds, foodstuffs, latex gloves and all those things are going to assist the hospital to improve service delivery . We are very thankful and hope that the year 2019 is going to be a bright one,” said Mr Mabhandi. Expecting mothers who received handbags with expecting mothers’ kits expressed joy for the timely gifts. After the donations at Mpilo Hospital, Cde Ncube proceeded to Emthunzini Wethemba children’s home where the First Lady donated 50 cases of mineral water and 20 cases of Mazoe. Emthunzini Wethemba administrator, Ms Anitha Maria Dick thanked the First Lady for the kind gesture. “We want to say thank you very much to our mother, the First Lady for thinking of us and having us in her heart. We thank you very much,” said Ms Dick. Cde Ncube asked her predecessor, Cde Angeline Masuku who was among those who witnessed the handover of the goods and clean up campaign to give a vote of thanks on behalf of Bulawayo community. “What I can say is that sibusisekile isandla esiphayo (Blessed is the hand that gives). We pray that the Lord continues to bless her as she looks after, particularly, children in homes. For you to be blessed you need to give. I hope one day we will be gathered here as the benefactors because we have learnt from our mother,” said Cde Masuku. – @AuxiliaK