The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
POLICE in Bulawayo have banned the carrying of dangerous weapons citing violence and looting of property in terror attacks that rocked the city on Monday and Tuesday. Marauding youths this week unleashed an orgy of violence and mayhem burning cars, property, looting shops, forcing children out of school among other unthinkable things. The police said unanticipated acts of violence forced law enforcement agents to invoke Public Order Security Act which allows them to prohibit carrying of dangerous weapons. Bulawayo deputy police spokesperson Inspector Abednico Ncube yesterday said they have since issued a prohibition order to all the four policing districts in the city. “The prohibition order applies to all our policing operations: Bulawayo Central, Bulawayo West, Bulawayo Suburban and Nkulumane districts. As police we are calling on people to be calm, exercise restraint, peaceful and value life and should not destroy property. “Attacks on people and destruction of property are not called for. Hence we have issued a prohibition order against carrying of dangerous weapons,” said Insp Ncube. The Officer Commanding Bulawayo West District, Chief Superintendent Lethiwe Mhandu, said weapons carried in public or through concealment might be used in committing violence. She said the prohibition order took effect from yesterday to February 16, next month. Chief Supt Mhandu said items such as catapults, machetes, axes, knobkerries, swords, knives and daggers constitute some of the banned weapons. “The reason for prohibition follows an unanticipated upsurge in public disorder involving the element of violence such as murder, assaults, malicious damage of property and looting in Bulawayo West District,” she said. “In terms of section 14(4) of the Public Order and Security Act (11:17) any person failing to comply with such a prohibition order made under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and liable to a fine not exceeding level five or imprisonment for six months or both such fine and imprisonment.” – @nqotshili