The Chronicle SOUTH AFRICA climbed to No 2 in the ICC rankings by clinching a whitewash series victory over Pakistan on day four of the third and final Castle Lager test at Bidvest Wanderers Stadium in Johannesburg yesterday. It took only one slightly extended session for South Africa to claim the remaining seven wickets to win the test by 107 runs. The victory also handed the Proteas a 3-0 series triumph. Fast bowler Duanne Olivier took three for 74 to finish with eight wickets in the match. Kagiso Rabada also got three of his own scalps at a cost of 75 runs. Set a target 381, Pakistan came into the penultimate day on 153 for three needing another 228 runs for an unlikely win. There was hope that the tourists would put up some kind of resistance, but South Africa’s fast bowlers were on the mark from the word go on Monday and offered little mercy. At the crease for Pakistan overnight were Asad Shafiq (48) and Babar Azam (17), who had shared in a partnership of 49 runs for the fourth wicket. But the pair could only add another nine before Duanne Olivier struck to have Babar Azam caught behind by wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock for 21. Captain Sarfraz Ahmed (0) was out to the very next ball, bowled by Olivier. Seven runs later and it was the turn of Asid Shafiq to depart the scene, caught by Dean Elgar off Vernon Philander for a 65 that included 11 fours. Then Kagiso Rabada got in the mix removing Faheem Ashraf for 15 and Mohammad for four, both caught by Aiden Markram in the gully. Rabada picked up his third scalp when he caught and bowled Hasan Ali for 22. The last wicket produced 31 runs before Mohammad Abbas was run out for nine leaving Shadab Khan stranded on a w ell-struck 47 not out. The teams will now have a few days off before contesting a five-match one-day international series starting at St George’s Park in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. South Africa: Dean Elgar (capt), Aiden Markram, Hashim Amla, Theunis de Bruyn, Temba Bavuma, Zubayr Hamza, Quinton de Kock (wk), Vernon Philander, Kagiso Rabada, Dale Steyn, Duanne Olivier Pakistan: Imam-ul-Haq, Shan Masood, Azhar Ali, Asad Shafiq, Babar Azam, Sarfraz Ahmed (capt & wk), Shadab Khan, Faheem Ashraf, Mohammad Amir, Mohammad Abbas, Hasan Ali — SuperSport