The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu/Harare Bureau
Legendary Zimbabwean musician Dr Oliver Mtukudzi died at Avenues Clinic in Harare yesterday. He was 66. Tuku died yesterday afternoon after battling with diabetes for some time. Mtukudzi through his music spoke against societal ills such as abuse of women and children. Some of the songs include Neria and Tozeza Baba. He was appointed United Nations Children’s Fund regional goodwill ambassador. Through his Tuku Music, Mtukudzi represented the country regionally and internationally. On Tuesday he missed the Coca-Cola Radio Zimbabwe Top 50 prize giving ceremony where he was supposed to receive an honorary award due to ill health. Last year Tuku missed the London Jazz Festival after suffering from what organisers of the renowned international jazz extravaganza said was heart attack. Tuku died exactly a year after the death of his friend, South Africa’s Jazz legend Hugh Masekela. Mtukudzi performed at Masekela’s memorial service at Wits University last year. Tuku began performing in 1977 when he joined the Wagon Wheels, a band that also featured Thomas Mapfumo. Their single Dzandimomotera went gold and Tuku’s first album followed, which was also a major success. Tuku is also a contributor to Mahube, Southern Africa’s “super group”. The late Mtukudzi is father of five children and has two grandchildren. Two of his children are also musicians. His son Sam Mtukudzi, a successful musician in his own right, died in a car accident in March 2010. Meanwhile, President Mnangagwa yesterday said he learnt with deep shock and great sadness of the death of international music icon Dr Oliver “Tuku” Mtukudzi, describing him as an expression of Zimbabwean identity and the country’s cultural ambassador. The legendary musician died at the Avenues Clinic in Harare yesterday after a long battle with diabetes. In a statement last night, President Mnangagwa said: “It was with deep sense of shock and great sadness that I learnt of the death of our own legendary musician and artist, Dr Oliver Mtukudzi, who died at the Avenues Clinic, Harare, this afternoon.” President Mnangagwa said Dr Mtukudzi raised Zimbabwe’s flag high wherever he performed. “An international icon, the late Dr Mtukudzi has been our cultural ambassador throughout his illustrious musical career raising our national flag high wherever he went to perform here at home, on the African continent, and throughout the world,” he said. The Head of State and Government and Commander in Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces said Dr Mtukudzi was an expression of Zimbabwean identity. “He was an expression of Zimbabwean identity, a man of humble character, very affable and engaging in his own unique way through Tuku Music,” said President Mnangagwa. He said Zimbabwe was poorer with his death. “The whole nation is all the poorer with his passing on. On behalf of Government, the party Zanu-PF, my family and indeed on my own behalf, I wish to extend our sincere condolences to the Mtukudzi family, especially his wife, Daisy and children during this, their dark hour of grief. May they derive comfort from the knowledge that the arts world in particular and our Nation as a whole, share their deep pain and great loss. May his dear soul rest in eternal peace,” said President Mnangagwa. Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa also consoled the Mtukudzi family in a statement. “Government conveys its heartfelt and sincere condolences to the Mtukudzi family over the passing on of Zimbabwe and international music icon, Oliver “Tuku” Mtukudzi. This is not only a loss to the Mtukudzi family but a loss to our country, the whole of Africa and humanity at large. Through his music Tuku touched millions of hearts around the globe,” she said. Minister Mutsvangwa said Dr Mtukudzi sang love, social justice, social trials and tribulations of human existence. “Tuku Music is a global symbol of Zimbabwean art and culture. He ably represented Zimbabwe on the regional, continental and international stage, providing education through his music that was rich in social commentary and entertaining at the same time. “Music never dies, and the rich legacy he has left with us is here to stay for generations. Tuku was a faithful ambassador for our country and through his music he managed to bring people together and in his death we are united in mourning,” she said.