The Chronicle Judith Phiri, Chronicle Reporter
THE Bulawayo Mayor’s Christmas Cheer Fund yesterday distributed items worth more than $37 000 to different charity organisations and individuals registered under the department of social welfare. Speaking during the second distribution for the 2018 edition at Lobengula and Tshabalala housing offices, the Mayor Councillor Solomon Mguni said that though Christmas has passed beneficiaries in the city are to receive distribution from the 2018 Mayor’s Christmas Cheer fund. “While the Christmas period has passed I note that this donation will bring a smile to the 4 500 beneficiaries doted around the city as well as the added 10 charity institutions. “We are using this time to remind our community that we are still aware of their needs. The harsh economic environment in the past few years has made it impossible to effectively collect donations and achieve the mandate of the cheer fund,” said Clr Mguni. About 1 154 people benefited from the Mayor’s Christmas Cheer Fund in wards 12, 13, 14 and 21, yesterday. “I am thankful that today we are handing over to beneficiaries at Lobengula housing office which comprise of wards 12, 13 and 14. This particular housing office had the largest number of applicants with 753. “For Tshabalala ward 21 here over 401 beneficiaries were privileged to receive goods from the 2018 Mayor’s Christmas Cheer fund,” he said. Clr Mguni also commended different corporate organisations and well-wishers who donated to the fund in cash and kind. “The Bulawayo Mayor’s cheer fund is assisted on this mandate by various corporate organisations and individuals in fundraising for the less privileged members of our community. We appreciate all donors who have made this possible today. We would not be here if it was not for their selfless acts and kindness,” he said. An additional ten homes also received donations and these are Khayelihle children’s village, Childline Zimbabwe, Edith Duly old people’s home, St Francis children’s home, Thorngrove hospital, Bulawayo Island Hospice, Thuthuka, Mustard Seed, John Slaven and King George VI. The cheer fund raised $36 000 and has managed to make deliveries at Mzilikazi, Entumbane, Emakhandeni, Luveve, Cowdray Park, Pumula, Mpompoma, Tshabalala, Nkulumane, Nketa and Emganwini housing offices. Some of the homes that also received donations at the end of last year include Railsten home, Ekuphumuleni old people’s home, John Smale Children’s home, Luveve training school for girls, Haven trust, Muscular dystrophy association of Zimbabwe, Percy Ibbotson and Luveve remand home, Emthunzini wethemba, Entembeni old people’s home, Queen Elizabeth children’s home. — @judiephiri9.