The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
MATABELELAND Rugby Football Board (MRFB) clubs want to pass a vote of no confidence on the Thulani Tabulawa led executive which they accuse of incompetence. Club representatives who spoke on condition of anonymity fearing victimisation, claimed that the MRFB board was deliberately flouting the constitution. The clubs said the board called off last month’s general meeting after picking wind that members of the assembly wanted to pass a vote of no confidence. “The clubs are fed up with the MRFB board which has displayed gross incompetence. Everything is upside down and as it is, they want to stay in power hence are avoiding the AGM. “Last month they called off the meeting saying it was unconstitutionally called for yet they were the ones who had invited members. They said the meeting wasn’t advertised and they will reschedule it and follow the proper channels to call it. This was after they got information that clubs wanted to chuck them out,” said a club official. The clubs also accused the board members of absconding meetings. “The constitution is clear, if one misses three consecutive meetings, they cease to be a member of the board. “One wonders how these guys have been going around their business because we are aware that some members of the board were not attending meetings. “Our question is, whose interests are they serving? This board is the worst because they’ve done nothing for rugby. It seems each person does what they want,” said a disgruntled member. A concern was also raised on the state of Hartsfield Rugby Grounds. “The Under-21 league is starting next week and the grass hasn’t been cut at Hartsfield. Actually, there are a lot of things that the board needs to explain including the Kudu Bar lease matter,” said a source. Efforts to get hold of the chairman and the MRFB spokesman Simba Dangah who is also the fixtures secretary, were fruitless as their mobile phones kept going to voicemail. Besides chairman Tabulawa, there is also Fungai Mudzekenyedzi and Craig Change in the executive. Old Miltonians, Bulldogs, Matabeleland Warriors and Highlanders each send a representative to the board. — @ZililoR