The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
FC Platinum central defender Gift Bello has not been stripped of the vice captaincy. Coach Norman Mapeza told Chronicle Sport yesterday that the use of veteran forward Mkhokheli Dube in press conferences in the recent trip to Tunisia where the team played and lost to Total Caf Champions League holders Esperance was mainly for communication efficiency rather than demotion of Bello. “Bello is still my vice-captain, deputising (Petros) Mhari. I only went with Mkhokheli to the pre and post match conferences in Tunisia for other reasons which had nothing to do with changing or dumping anybody,” said Mapeza. Bello a tried and trusted veteran of many battles, deputises goalkeeper Mhari with another defender Kevin Moyo taking over the armband if the duo is not part of the team. Pure Platinum Play resumed preparations for their crucial Caf Champions League Group B home encounter against Horoya of Guinea early next month. It’s a game FC Platinum have to collect maximum points to stay in contention to advance to the quarter-finals of the continent’s premier club competition. FC Platinum have recorded just a single win in this year’s edition of the tournament, a 1-0 victory over CNaps of Madagascar in the second-leg of the preliminary round. Below are the statistics of their campaign according to online site mysports.co.zw. 1 FC Platinum has recorded one win so far in the competition. 2 It was FC Platinum’s second match in the group stages meaning they are yet to record a win although they played to a 0-0 draw with Orlando Pirates at Babourfields Stadium in Bulawayo before this defeat. They are yet to score a goal in the two group stage matches so far. FC Platinum, who had conceded two goals ahead of the Esperance match, conceded more than one goal for the first time in a single match from their six matches played so far. 3 The Zvishavane side has failed to score in three consecutive Caf Champions League matches as the team is yet to find the best striking combination since striker and Soccer Star of the Year Rodwell Chinyengetere left the club. The platinum miners are on three goals in this competition and all of them scored in the opening three matches. They are, however, without a goal in their last three matches. They have kept three clean sheets. All of their three goals have come in the second half. 4 Chinyengetere started and completed the opening four matches, scoring one goal before leaving for South Africa. Four is also the number of goals FC Platinum have conceded in their six matches. 5 Until the defeat to Esperance last Friday, FC Platinum were on a five-match unbeaten run in the competition. Having missed the opening match, the duo of defender William Stima and midfielder Devon Chafa has gone on to play five consecutive matches and completing the 90 minutes. Veteran defender Gift Bello, who has had a good tournament, is also on five completed matches; he missed the second-leg against AS Otoho after picking up two yellow cards and was suspended. 6 The defeat to Esperance marked the sixth match FC Platinum have played in this edition of the Caf Champions League. They are on one win, four draws and one defeat, scoring three goals through Chinyengetere, Stima and Farai Madhananga. Goalkeeper and captain Petros Mhari, defender Elvis Moyo and midfielder Kevin Madzongwe have played all the six matches and completed 90 minutes. Madhananga has played all the six matches, although he has completed five matches and lasted 85 minutes in the match against AS Otoho at Mandava Stadium where he picked a yellow card. Former Hwange forward Gift Mbweti has also played all six matches, which include four starts, completing three 90 minutes and lasting 85 minutes in the other games before making two substitute appearances, playing 19 and 13 minutes respectively. 7 FC Platinum will play their seventh Caf Champions League match in this edition on the 2nd of February against Horoya of Guinea at Barbourfields Stadium in Bulawayo. In the six matches, the team has picked seven yellow cards and no red card. Bello is on two yellow cards, which saw him missing one of the matches. On one yellow card each are Chinyengetere, Lawrence Mhlanga, Madzongwe, Madhananga and Elvis Moyo. FC Platinum avoided yellow cards in three of their six matches, including the last two matches (Group stages), meaning no player is suspended ahead of their seventh match. Any of the four players on a single yellow card will miss the eighth match if they pick up a yellow against Horoya. 8 Norman Mapeza was left looking for an eighth striking option after trying seven strikers and getting three goals in the six matches. He used Gift Mbweti (6 appearances), Lameck Nhamo (4), Rodwell Chinyengetere (4), Albert Eonde (2), Thomas Chideu (2), Ali Sadiki (1)and Mkhokheli Dube (2). 9 Of the 29 registered players, Mapeza has used 20 players. 10 Orlando Pirates of South Africa top Group B with four points. Holders Esperance of Tunisia are second with four points, while FC Platinum and Horoya of Guinea have a point each.