The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
ZIFA Southern Region chairman Andrew Tapela has advised Highlanders to approach the football governing body for review of sanctions imposed on the club by the Premier Soccer League. Highlanders continued to lose substantial amounts through fines despite being the PSL’s cash cow. Last season, Bosso lost almost half of their prize money in Premiership fines due to the disgusting behaviour of some fans, who either threw missiles or invaded the pitch during the season. A third of their Chibuku Super Cup prize money as well as about half of the Castle Lager Premiership pickings for finishing fifth also went to servicing fines. “We were supposed to get $15 000 for being losing quarter-finalists in the Chibuku Super Cup, but after fines we got just $5 000. For finishing fifth in the PSL our prize money was $40 000, but we only banked $22 000, with the bulk going to fines caused by some unrepentant fans. So instead of us getting a total of $55 000, we got $27 000, which is half of what we were entitled to. That money could have gone a long way in assisting the club,” Bosso chairman Kenneth Mhlophe said. For the better part of the season, Bosso fans showed exemplary behaviour. The league summoned Bosso once for a disciplinary hearing, following an incident where their fans threw missiles during the 4-0 defeat to Chapungu at Ascot Stadium on October 25. Highlanders’ supporters got angry and started throwing missiles onto the pitch causing a 28-minute stoppage after Chapungu midfielder Edmore Muzanenhamo celebrated his team’s opener in front of them. For that incident, Highlanders’ treasurer Donald Ndebele reported to club members at their annual general meeting on Sunday that they were slapped with a $3 000 fine. To appeal against the judgment, he said, Bosso would have parted with $4 000. “The fine of missing a hearing is more than that which we were served with,” said Ndebele. In his contribution, Tapela, a former Highlanders secretary-general, said he was aware that it’s difficult for Bosso to get the league to review the fines. “I know that maybe two clubs can argue for review of the fines which are in the PSL’s standing orders. Maybe the chairman (Kenneth Mhlophe) should try and lobby Dynamos so that they present a strong case at the Zifa assembly. Remember, the PSL cannot go against Zifa resolutions,” said Tapela. — @ZililoR