The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
ZANU-PF Matabeleland South Province has expressed confidence in President Mnangagwa’s leadership saying it will not recognise anyone who might challenge him for the position. Presenting resolutions which were passed during a provincial coordinating committee (PCC) meeting held yesterday, Zanu-PF Matabeleland South chairman, Cde Rabelani Choeni said the province had strong confidence in President Mnangagwa’s leadership. He said they were in support of the President’s announcement of the fuel price increase as it would yield positive results. “As Matabeleland South Province we are solely behind President Emmerson Mnangagwa; there is no other leader that we know. No matter what happens we will continue to rally behind him. We will not accept or recognise anyone who may come and try to impose themselves as the party leader. “Matabeleland South PCC unreservedly supports the President’s announcement and the subsequent increase of fuel prices which should curb selling of fuel on the black market and fuel shortages,” he said. Cde Choeni said the province also condemned last week’s protests that were spearheaded by MDC Alliance and its local and foreign allies. He said it was clear that Zanu-PF was under siege from both eternal and external forces as part of a continuation of the illegal regime change agenda. Cde Choeni said the party was also against unjustifiable commodity price increases. He said they resolved that Government should introduce the people’s shops to combat the price madness. He said shops had to desist from charging goods in forex. “If teachers should continue to defy government directive to report for duty they should be relieved of their duties immediately. The police should be accorded the authority they deserve in order to carry out their duties effectively,” he said. Cde Choeni said the province was against any negotiations between the ruling party and the opposition to form a unity government as Zanu-PF was given the mandate to rule by the people when it won elections in July last year. Addressing members of the PCC, Cde Choeni urged party members to present a united front. He warned party members against creating parallel structures and divisions. “Let’s be united in the year 2019 and let us work together so that we build and strengthen the party. We have had parallel structures in the previous year, let us do away with them as they destroy the party. Let’s not fuel hatred, division or fighting. It’s better to fight for the province to develop and grow than to fight amongst ourselves as the enemy isn’t within the party,” he said. “If you had motives to divide or destroy the party last year please drop them. The party is made up of different structures and we should work together in those various structures and not have divisions. Can you also respect the party leadership for the province, if you have grievances or issues that should be addressed they should go through the provincial leadership and not be sent straight to the national office. Let’s observe and respect protocol.” Cde Choeni said each party member has a duty to defend the party against its enemies. He also urged party members to attend meetings. — @DubeMatutu