The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
THE National University and Science Technology (Nust) yesterday signed a Memorandum of Understanding on research and food security with the World Food Programme (WFP) in an effort to alleviate hunger and lessen vulnerability in rural communities. The partnership between the Institute of Development Studies (IDS) at Nust and WFP will ensure that the university takes the lead in looking at analytical work needed to identify multi sectoral programming and foster joint resilience programming with a view to sustainably enhance the skills base of rural communities. Speaking during the signing ceremony at Nust, the university’s Vice Chancellor, Professor Mqhele Dlodlo, said the MoU would go a long way in uplifting the living standards of people in the country. “This signing ceremony marks the beginning of a long road of a partnership between the WFP and Nust. Urban and rural vulnerability reduction can’t be achieved without vibrant partnerships between institutions of higher learning and other developmental players such as WFP. It’s on this basis that universities are challenged to be relevant and responsive to local and national development needs. Thus, universities have a significant role to play in community development by continuously being a site of knowledge production,” said Prof Dlodlo. He said the collaboration between Nust and WFP also confirms efforts to reduce deficiencies existing between academic and development organisations. “Nust, through this partnership will conduct applied research on the 3PA to confirm and strengthen programming underpinned by the Integrated Context Analysis (ICA), Seasonal Livelihood Programming (SLP) and Community Based Participatory Planning (CBPP) information. “The process will also enable evaluation of the successes and weaknesses to reinforce hazard and vulnerable mapping. The university will also develop short courses on resilience building, risk reduction and institutional development,” said Prof Dlodlo. He added that in the partnership, Nust is expected to contribute to resilience building through initiatives that fortify Food for Asset (FFA) programming and enhance capacity building of extension personnel. “Using IDS-Nust expertise and that of other departments within the broader Nust, FFA shall be evaluated to edify the mode of delivery and some of its key tenets to support household food access. “IDS-Nust with the support of other relevant university departments shall further impart innovativeness and promote risk reduction strategies to lessen vulnerability in rural communities,” said Prof Dlodlo. WFP representative and country director Mr Eddie Rowe said the partnership would go a long way in ensuring that the university takes the lead in looking at the analytical work needed to foster joint resilience programming. He said in Zimbabwe, the 3PA methodology was successfully pioneered in 2012 with Government leadership and participation at all stages and levels. “Districts like Matobo, Hwange, Binga, Tsholotsho, Kariba, Rushinga, Mbire, Mwenezi, Masvingo and Chiredzi have benefitted from the 3PA processes. “It’s important to note that this partnership is not just about working together, but to also empower all parties to do better,” said Mr Rowe. He said the partnership would ensure that WFP provides technical, programmatic design and operational support to Nust, to use the innovative tools, while also allowing Nust to conduct applied research on the tools and methodologies to strengthen programming. The signing ceremony was attended by provincial leaders from Matabeleland region, officials from crops and livestock and social welfare departments as well as officials from Nust and WFP. – @pamelashumba1