The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
AFTER years of hosting weddings and shows in Bulawayo and around the country, Cde Phil has redefined his craft after landing a job at ZBC’s Khulumani FM last year. He has become one of the most recognisable voices on the airwaves along with his co-host Tracy Duchess Ndlovu on their drive time show Vrrr Pha. Cde Phil, real name Philip Moyo, has been in the industry for the past 10 years, burst on the scene at the Amakhosi Dreams to fame platform where he won the top prize in poetry. Since then he has hosted events such as Plays on Sunday, Inxusa Festival, talent search competition Star Bright, Intwasa Arts Festival koBulawayo and the Jikinya Dance festival National finals. Being on Khulumani FM has opened his eyes to the hidden talents that have enabled him to further sharpen his talents on the mic. He said the past year has been an everyday learning curve made easy by veteran radio personalities such as Luke Mnkandla and Hilton Mavise. “The past seven months have been an exciting journey and with each passing day you learn something new from senior people like Omphile Marupi and personalities such as Black Diamond and Slaizer. It’s a learning curve for me especially being given the prime time spot of Drive Time radio. It is hard, you need to be in touch with everything,” said Cde Phil. “You have so many personalities to learn from such as Sibongumusa Dlodlo and veteran presenter Hilton Mavise who always lend you an ear if you want advice. They always give you that motivation and they don’t pull you down.” He said the highlight of his career was this week when he did radio commentary during the CAF Champions League group B match between FC Platinum and Orlando Pirates FC at Barbourfields Stadium. “It was one of the highlights of my career. It was an amazing experience to do commentary for a match of that magnitude inside a packed Barbourfields Stadium in Bulawayo. I’ll really cherish that moment,” said Cde Phil. On of the weirdest things to happen on radio was when Cde Phil answered a call that had someone demanding their money from him on the other end. “I remember this other day I don’t know if it was a crossed line or what. I answered a call and the person on the other line said ‘SekaGugu Ingaph’ imali yami’! (SekaGugu where’s my money!). My co-host was equally puzzled and asked if I have a child called Gugu. I dropped the call and the person called again asking the same question. I said this is Khulumani FM and he dropped the call,” said Cde Phil. He said other people phone in just to express their happiness or sadness on radio. “So this left me puzzled that people can phone into radio and say anything, but you need to respond to everyone who calls appropriately. Some people call when they are low on spirits and just need to be uplifted. Others such as Highlanders Football club supporters call and shout Bosso. And that’s it, they’d be satisfied with that,” said Cde Phil. Besides being on radio, Cde Phil said he has not quit the passion that thrust him into the limelight, Mcing. Born at Mpilo Central Hospital on April 21, 1993, Moyo is the sixth born in a family of five girls and two boys. He grew up in Bulawayo’s oldest suburb, Makokoba, and did primary schooling at Lotshe and secondary education at St Columba’s in the same high-density suburb before enrolling for ‘A’ Levels at Northlea High.