The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter
In 2018 Zimbabwean courts handled high profile cases that attracted both local and international media. Notable cases that generated a lot of public interest include the landmark election petition ruling by the Constitutional Court (ConCourt) in which losing MDC-Alliance leader Mr Nelson Chamisa was contesting the victory of President Emmerson Mnangagwa in the July 30 harmonised elections. The court proceedings, which were streamed live on television for the first time in the history of the country’s judiciary system, attracted millions of viewers across the globe. The full bench of the ConCourt comprising nine judges led by Chief Justice Luke Malaba unanimously agreed that Mr Chamisa had failed to prove allegations of electoral fraud during the Presidential vote and subsequently declared President Mnangagwa the winner. President Mnangagwa was represented by Advocates Lewis Uriri and Thembinkosi Magwaliba while Advocate Chamisa had Advocates Thabani Mpofu and Sylvester Hashiti in his corner. Mr Tawanda Kanengoni assisted by Mr Charles Nyika appeared for the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC). After the ruling Chief Justice Malaba praised Zimbabweans for showing confidence in the Judiciary and said they were entitled to make their conclusions on the matter because it was within the confines of the law to do so. “Whatever views you take, you are entitled to the views. They are your views. However, at the end of the day, we are citizens of this country. We are Zimbabweans and we all have the right to belong. Let it be. I thank you,” he said. On lighter note, the proceedings also turned most Zimbabweans into “lawyers” as people could not resist throwing legal jargon such as ‘pith’ and ‘fulcrum’ into their conversations. In April, MDC splinter group led by Dr Khupe got the relief they wanted after Deputy Chief Justice Elizabeth Gwaunza ruled that their Constitutional Court application challenging her dismissal from Parliament had merit. The judge held a hearing to determine whether the matter should be heard on an urgent basis or not. After hearing arguments from both parties’ lawyers, Deputy Chief Justice Gwaunza ruled that the matter was urgent and said that it should be argued before the full bench of the Constitutional Court. Dr Khupe, who was the MDC-T Proportional Representation Member of Parliament, was expelled from the National Assembly after the then MDC-T leader Chamisa wrote to the Speaker of Parliament, Advocate Jacob Mudenda, claiming that she no longer represented the opposition party’s interests. In her application at the Constitutional Court, former MDC-T vice president Khupe accused Parliament of failing to protect her tenure as a Member of Parliament as required by Sections 119(1) and 129 of the Constitution of Zimbabwe, when it endorsed her expulsion from the National Assembly. The full hearing of the matter was concluded in October after all the parties presented their arguments. Chief Justice Malaba, in concurrence with all the other judges, reserved judgment in the matter to a later date. In May, two rival camps of the opposition MDC, one fronted by Adv Chamisa and the other by Dr Thokozani Khupe clashed over ownership of the party name and symbols in March with the dispute spilling into the Bulawayo High Court where Justice Francis Bere, then High Court judge, presided over the matter. During the same month Justice Bere together with Justice Lavender Makoni formerly at the Harare High Court, were elevated to the Supreme Court after succeeding in public interviews conducted two years ago. Justice Francis Bere dismissed Adv Chamisa’s application that was brought under a certificate of urgency. In his ruling, the judge noted that there was a constitutional crisis in the MDC-T and the matter was not urgent because Adv Chamisa had not been confirmed by an impartial body to be the rightful heir to the MDC-T throne. The dispute ended up in the Supreme Court, which upheld an appeal by Adv Chamisa. Justice Paddington Garwe, sitting with Justices Anne-Marie Gowora and Antonia Guvava, set aside a High Court ruling, allowing Dr Khupe and her followers to use the opposition party’s logo and emblem. In his decision, Justice Garwe quashed the lower court’s ruling and referred the matter back to the High Court to be heard under a different judge. In August Bulawayo ‘‘serial killer” Rodney Tongai Jindu pulled another shocker when he pleaded for assisted suicide before he was eventually sentenced to death for the callous murder of two of his friends in 2017. Jindu (27) of Glengarry suburb in the city was arrested in January 2018 in connection with the deaths of Mboneli Joko Ncube and Cyprian Kudzurunga. He shot dead Kudzurunga (28) of Queens Park East on January 29, buried him in a shallow grave in Burnside suburb and sent a message to the deceased’s mother pretending to be her son who had suddenly decided to leave the country. He also shot Ncube and dismembered his body and set the parts on fire before burying them in four shallow graves in Burnside. During trial, Jindu told the court that he was sent by the devil to kill two of his victims and threatened to unleash the evil spirit on prosecutors. He said when he committed the two murders, he was under the influence of heroin and methamphetamine (crystal meth) which created an urge for him to kill. Jindu also confessed that he ate the pair’s raw livers and cooked the brains before consuming them. Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Nokuthula Moyo ignored Jindu’s “unreasonable plea” when she convicted him of murder with actual intent. In sentencing Jindu, Justice Moyo said capital punishment was the most appropriate sentence. In November, the Supreme Court on circuit in Bulawayo ordered the MDC to pay a South African company and a Bulawayo garment firm nearly R5 million for party regalia supplied to the opposition party during the 2008 elections. The party ordered 200 000 T- shirts and head scarves commonly known as “doeks and bandanas” from a South African wholesale textile company and a Bulawayo garment manufacturing firm for use during its campaign ahead of the 2008 Presidential election runoff. The late Mr Morgan Tsvangirai later opted out alleging acts of violence against his party supporters. The manufacturing firms, Cabat Trade and Finance (Pvt) Ltd of Johannesburg in South Africa and Security Mills (Pvt) Ltd of Belmont in Bulawayo charged the party about R 4, 6 million for the consignment but it failed to pay. The two firms sued the opposition party at the High Court and the MDC won the case last year but the matter spilled into the Supreme Court on appeal. Supreme Court judge Justice Bharat Patel sitting with Deputy Chief Justice Elizabeth Gwaunza and acting judge of appeal Justice Martin Makonese on circuit in Bulawayo set aside the High Court judgment. He ordered MDC to pay Security Mills R4, 5 million together with five percent interest calculated from April 2008 to the date of final payment. “It is accordingly ordered that appeal be and hereby allowed with costs. The judgment of the court a quo is set aside and substituted with a judgment ordering the respondent (MDC ) to pay the second plaintiff (Security Mills) the sum of R4 560 935,37 together with prescribed rate of five percent per annum,” ruled Justice Patel. During the same month the Supreme Court confirmed the death sentence on a Binga man who axed his wife 11 times and chopped off her head before hiding it in a cardboard box following a domestic dispute. Wonder Munsaka (33) of Zenka Village under Chief Siabuwa was in 2017 convicted of murder with actual intent by Bulawayo High Court Justice Nokuthula Moyo and sentenced to death by hanging. Munsaka axed his wife of 10 years, Fortunate Mutale (23) on the forehead, right palm and finger before chopping off the head in October 2014. Supreme Court judge Justice Antonia Guvava sitting with Justices Rita Makarau and Francis Bere on circuit in Bulawayo dismissed his appeal, saying the bench was satisfied that Justice Moyo could not be faulted for passing a death sentence given the circumstances under which the offence was committed. The trial of 10 suspects who allegedly stole part of the nearly $1 million worth of gold which was being kept as an exhibit at Plumtree Police Station kicked off at the Bulawayo High Court on November 6. Plumtree regional magistrate, Timeon Tavengwa Makunde, Stanley Chinyanganya who is Plumtree area public prosecutor, prominent Harare lawyer Admire Rubaya, the officer-in-Charge of Plumtree Police Station, Inspector Ginger Vhiyano, Detective Assistant Inspector Ladislous Tinacho who is in charge of the ZRP Minerals and Border Control Unit in Plumtree, Sidingumuzi Ncube, Tyson Ruvando, Ladislous Tambooneyi who are all police officers, Jefat Chaganda and Godfrey Makuvadze appeared before Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Thompson Mabhikwa on charges of theft and obstructing the course of justice. In December, the High Court declared unconstitutional the refusal by Ihlathi High School in Bulawayo to release results of an Ordinary Level candidate over outstanding fees and referred the matter to the Constitutional Court (ConCourt). The pupil, Prudence Moyo from Ihlathi High School through her lawyer Mr Bruce Masamvu of Dube-Tachiona and Tsvangirai Legal Practitioners had asked the court to refer the matter to the Constitutional Court for a constitutional declaration. The school has since February 2016 been refusing to release the results demanding to be paid the outstanding fees. In papers filed at the Bulawayo High Court, the headmaster of Ihlathi High school and the Minister of Primary and Secondary Education Professor Paul Mavima were cited as respondents. Justice Nicholas Mathonsi ruled that the conduct of the respondents was inconsistent with the Constitution of Zimbabwe. “The conduct of the respondents to withhold applicant’s Ordinary Level results on the basis of non-payment of school fees is inconsistent with the Constitution of Zimbabwe,” ruled the judge. He said the actions of the respondents were unlawful and an infringement on the applicant’s right to education in terms of section 75 (1) (a) as read with section 81(1) (f) of the constitution. – @mashnets