The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter
A PAN-African youth empowerment organisation, Africa Internship Academy (AIA) has said the skills gap is one of the major reasons for unemployment among the young generation in Africa. In a statement, the organisation which is headquartered in Ghana said with their extensive experience in working with youths in Africa over the years, they have discovered that the general transition from school to work in Africa was pathetic. Against this background, AIA has tasked itself to accelerate the level of youth employment across Africa by filling in the skills gap. “Having worked extensively with youths in Africa over the years, we have discovered that the general transition from school-to-work is very weak. We, as a Pan-African Social enterprise have made it our prerogative to accelerate the level of especially youth employment across Africa by filling in the skills gap,” it said. The academy has launched innovative training programmes that will give the African youth the opportunity to acquire soft skills which are highly valued by employers. The innovative training will provide work readiness and entrepreneurship programmes for secondary and higher education students as well as graduates to gain entrepreneurial and employable skills. “In respect to helping solve this indispensable situation, we have been working tirelessly, not only to patch the hole but also build young generational change pioneers, especially in business, creativity and innovation through well thought-out avenues,” AIA said. According to the academy’s statistics about 10 million who graduate from the 668 universities in Africa each year, do not get jobs. The academy said the educational institutions and the working bodies were both to blame for the lame nature of the transition and that employers lament about the poor skills of entry level talents. “The educational institutions and the working bodies are both to blame for the lame nature of the transition. Many employers lament about the poor skills of entry level talents; they take in young people and get frustrated in the short run due to lack or inadequate skills on the part of the personnel,” it said. — @queentauruszw.