The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
FORMER national team defender Bekithemba “Super” Ndlovu has described his official return to Highlanders as the final stage of his coaching “apprenticeship”.
Ndlovu completed his return to the Highlanders’ first team technical set-up on Friday as one of Madinda Ndlovu’s assistant coaches alongside Mandla Mpofu. The national Under-20 coach was assistant to head coach Kelvin Kaindu at Bosso up to 2014. “This wasn’t a difficult decision for me because as a young coach it’s always wise to tap knowledge from people who have been in the industry for a while like Madinda Ndlovu. To me, I believe this move is a step in the right direction as I’m coming to learn from Madinda who has coached the national team and won championships outside the country (in Botswana). I learnt a lot from Kaindu and I believe that after understudying Madinda, I should be able to tackle anything. To me, this is the final stage of my apprenticeship and I hope to add value to the team,” said Bekithemba. He was Madinda’s preferred assistant when the Bosso legend was appointed head coach last season, but the former was offered the head coach’s job at How Mine before the club folded ahead of the 2018 season. Bekithemba then moved to relegated Bulawayo City FC as assistant coach and was elevated to head coach following the sacking of Amini Soma-Phiri due to poor results last season. He, however, failed to save Bulawayo City from sinking despite a late charge that saw his team ending the season on a seven game unbeaten run. “I’m fortunate and honoured to be part of the technical team of this big institution, which has a rich history and lots of supporters. To serve the club as its son is something else and I know that my profile will be better at Highlanders,” said Bekithemba. He expressed his gratitude to Bulawayo City for giving him the opportunity to prove his worth. “I wish Bulawayo City the best because they gave me a chance to coach and managed to post good results towards the end of the (2018) season, but unfortunately we were relegated. I’m thankful to Bulawayo City’s executive, board and players for the support they gave me. “In football, we are always moving as coaches whether results are there or not. If results don’t come your way as a coach, they (club bosses) move you and in my case, I’m moving freely without being forced to do so by my previous employer. Hopefully our paths will meet one day,” Bekithemba said. Highlanders’ chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube confirmed Bekithemba’s return and said they had also brought on board a permanent fitness trainer. “We’re in the continuous process of strengthening the club, in particular the first team. The technical manager (Madinda) had requested for additional coaching staff. Bekithemba comes in as assistant coach to work alongside Mandla Mpofu,” said Dube. “We have also brought on board Brian Keti as a physical trainer and he will be in charge of physical training throughout. He will take charge of players’ physical fitness, physical conditioning and also help them get back to fitness after injuries,” said Dube. — @ZililoR