The Chronicle Eddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau
FOOTBALL supporters have hailed the decision by Zifa to introduce pre-match ticket sales ahead of the final Afcon qualifier against Congo-Brazzaville in March. The Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters Association organising secretary, Chris “Romario” Musekiwa, yesterday said they were happy with the move. Zimbabwe will host Congo-Brazzaville in a do-or-die clash on March 24 at the giant stadium. The association announced this week that tickets will go on the market on February 1. “This is a great decision from Zifa and as supporters we are happy with this because that is the norm world over. It’s also good for accountability and for planning purposes. “It takes away unnecessary pressure and the chaos which we witnessed when we hosted the DRC and lately in Bulawayo when FC Platinum hosted Orlando Pirates. “Zifa should start massive awareness campaigns so that supporters will get into the picture of what is happening. This is a huge match for us and we want a full house,” said Musekiwa. ZNSSA said many of their supporters have been inconvenienced at the gates during high-profile games. Last week thousands of supporters were turned away from Barbourfields after failing to gain entrance for the Champions League match between FC Platinum and Orlando Pirates. Zifa have since set up an organising committee chaired by board member competitions Chamu Chiwanza with Sugar Chagonda, Philemon Machana and Bryton Malandule coming in as committee members. Zifa president Felton Kamambo said they have learnt from past mistakes and have engaged stakeholders to facilitate the supply of the tickets across the country. “In as far as the Afcon preparations are concerned, the association will be selling e-tickets for the match against Congo-Brazzaville. The tickets will go on sale on February 1. “All the tickets that we are going to sell will be pre-match tickets. There is not going to be any ticket sales at the match venue. We will be announcing where the fans will get the tickets. “We are also going to have a launch for the Afcon campaign mid-February. We will advise of the exact dates. “We have also engaged a sponsor for our kit. It’s now at an advanced stage. Hopefully, within the coming two weeks we will announce the agreement on the kit contract and the sponsor. We will make a joint announcement for that. “We have said we want to treat everything about the national team as a commercial entity. There will be an update on weekly basis on the number of tickets sold and the remaining ones so that our fans can make informed decisions,’’ said Kamambo. The Zifa board met with coach Sunday Chidzambwa and his two assistants, Lloyd Mutasa and Rahman Gumbo, in Harare yesterday less than 24 hours after the dismissal of the backroom staff was reversed.