The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter THREE people died while 35 others were injured in separate road accidents that occurred on Christmas Day, raising the death toll to 24, police have confirmed. In a statement yesterday, national police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said this year the nation recorded a 28 percent drop in road accidents that occurred on Christmas Day compared to last year. He said in 2018, 131 road accidents were recorded compared to 94 for this year. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police informs the nation that a total of 94 road traffic accidents were recorded on Christmas Day. Three people were killed while 35 others were injured,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi said the same number of people were injured last year when four people were killed. He blamed human error for most of the accidents. Asst Comm Nyathi said police arrested several reckless drivers and also impounded a number of unroadworthy vehicles. “The major causes of accidents were speeding, reversing errors and inattention. A total of 138 touts were arrested, 165 motor vehicles were impounded for various offences and 797 tickets were issued,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi urged motorists to abide by the law and observe the rules of the road. “Police will remain firm on the ground for the rest of the holiday to ensure a crime free atmosphere prevails. We are appealing to all road users to be cautious and the consider the safety of others. “Drivers are urged to be observant, alert and consider the conditions of the road particularly potholes. “They should avoid speeding and be on the lookout for pedestrians and animals and the effects of the current weather on tyres as they travel either on highways or feeder roads, this includes residential areas and built up areas,” said Asst Comm Nyathi. Meanwhile, our Harare Bureau reports that police arrested 128 touts in a blitz on bus terminuses and ranks on Christmas Day while 165 vehicles were impounded for various offences with 797 tickets being issued. Police have given the names of the victims of the fatal road accident which occurred at the 178km peg along Harare-Nyamapanda Road on December 20 with a single Mudzi village losing 10 people. William Chikowe, Erica Chikowe, Mandi Chikowe, Francis Chikowe, Erica Chari, Evelyn Kambizi, Christine Dawaka, one year old Leeroy Kanetsa, Lenny Tsuro and Douglas Tsuro all from Tapfuma Village in Nyamukoko, Mudzi, have since been buried. The other two killed in the accident were Aaron Matthew Mutepfa (20) of Kotwa and five-year-old Tashia Chapinduka of Stoneridge Harare. Names of victims of another fatal road accident that occurred along the Masvingo-Beitbridge Road which occurred on Sunday were also given. The victims were Zindava Tabonashe (23) of Mutare, Trevory Fungai Nyakuwanikwa (33) and Musiza Rose Nobuhle (25). “Police will remain firm on the ground for the rest of the holiday to ensure a crime-free atmosphere is provided to all Zimbabweans. “We are appealing to all road users to be cautious and to consider the safety of others. Drivers are urged to be observant, alert and consider the conditions of the road particularly pot holes,” said Assitant Commissioner Nyathi. “They should avoid speeding and be on the lookout of pedestrians, animals and the effects of the current weather on tyres as they travel either on highways or feeder roads. This includes residential areas and other built up areas. Let’s play our part to make roads safe and not death traps.” — @nqotshili