The Chronicle Rutendo Ngara, Chronicle Reporter NATIONAL security personnel have been urged to be competent, professional and work hand in hand with other stakeholders in curbing corruption and other crimes to enhance nation building. Speaking at the graduation of 143 cadres at the School of Military Police (SMP) at Khumalo Barracks in Bulawayo on Friday, Colonel (Quartermaster Staff) Benjamin Sabata said graduates must show professionalism wherever they are because they are there to promote peace, unity, a knowledgeable society and must contribute to nation building. “Corruption is a worm and disease which erodes economic development and success of any organisation and country at large. With the anti-corruption stance adopted, let’s shun corruption and ensure that there is impartiality in the administration of the law and justice,” said Col Sabata. He said graduates must exhibit their skills so that the security sector can be known for excellence. “The training packages were designed to equip the graduands with requisite knowledge that would transform you into professional and competent military policeman and women in the Zimbabwe Defence Forces and indeed our sister organisation, the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services,” said Col Sabata. He urged the graduates to be always alert because violent demonstrations can erupt any time and because of the training they have undergone they must be able to calm the environment. “You have witnessed a number of demonstrations organised by civil society groups which are being sponsored by foreign hostile elements, hence you must always be alert,” said Col Sabata. The graduates were drawn from the Air Force of Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services and Zimbabwe National Army. The training comprised eight courses which include basic military police, basic martial arts, senior investigations, military police records and maintenance course, warders’ course, cyber and white-collar crime investigations course and the regimental police course. Corporal Themba Simango from Harare won the best student award on cyber and white-collar investigations. — @missngara