The Chronicle Ongoing attacks by a terrorist organisation with possible links to ISIS in Cabo Delgado, the northernmost province of Mozambique, has left behind a trail of destruction with no end in sight, which could have an impact on South Africa if left unchecked. Cabo Delgado is made up of mostly sleepy, small villages populated by subsistence farmers who also fish along its coastline. Now, however, those villages are mostly deserted. This year, more than 600 people were reportedly killed, while this month has seen 17 attacks from the unknown terrorist group, the most recent occurring on Tuesday. While not much is known about the group, the attacks have been happening for the past two years. It is alleged the Islamic State (ISIS) group has claimed responsibility for 26 attacks. It has left behind a trail of mutilated bodies — beheaded, disfigured and dismembered — of men, women and children, as well as burned and deserted villages. The group’s funding, its origins, mandate and even its name are unknown. Jasmine Opperman, the Africa associate of Islamic theology on counterterrorism, said there were between seven and 10 cells operating in Cabo Delgado, but “no evidence at this point in time of an overarching ideology or an overarching leadership”. “There are indicators of Islamic extremism involved in some of these cell structures,” Opperman added. But a media clampdown by the Mozambican government — which appears to be out of its depth in dealing with the problem — made it impossible to gain information, she said. “We are sitting with a serious, serious problem,” Opperman said, adding Islamic extremists, and specifically the Islamic State Central African Province, “has taken note of the opportunity”. “The Islamic State does not need a well-run organisation [operation]. They need a proxy and some of these cells are the ideal proxy.” Complicating the situation further is the strained relationship between two military forces — the Mozambique Defence Armed Forces (FADM) and Russian Wagner troops. Johann Smith, an independent political and security risk analyst who has no doubt that ISIS is present in the area, said the Wagner troops had been ill-prepared for the conditions in Mozambique upon their arrival. It was not only the scorching temperatures, but the hi-tech equipment they brought with have proven to be ineffective. — Al Jazeera