The Chronicle Health, Andile Tshuma EMERGENCIES don’t take a holiday. A gift of blood is a gift of life and that is the greatest gift of all. With the festive season upon us, road accident injuries lead to a spike in need of blood transfusions and one just can’t imagine a situation where there are not enough stocks because people did not donate. Not all heroes wear shining armour; carry guns, swords or shields. Blood donors are some of the greatest heroes in their communities as their precious blood enables lives to be saved in emergency rooms. Two humble men are just the kind of heroes who do not wear caps, but have saved the lives of over 200 patients in need of blood. Speaking in an interview during World Blood Donor Day commemoratons recently, Mr Zulu Moyo and Mr Miller Satambwe, both in their late 50s say they find joy and satisfaction in the fact that they have touched over a 100 lives each by donating their blood. They are blood donors who have been giving blood for a number of years. Mr Moyo who stays in Ntabazinduna said a traffic accident he witnessed in 1992 pushed him to be a blood donor. “I witnessed a horrific accident in 1992 and heard that those people needed a lot of blood but hospitals were running out as not many people were giving blood. I took it upon myself to donate blood as I felt obliged to help people. Since then, I’ve been giving blood every three months and to date, I’ve donated over 100 units,” said Mr Moyo. He said helping people in need of blood made him feel connected with the community. “I know I may never meet any of the 100 people that I’ve assisted with my blood but knowing that another person got a second shot at life because of my blood makes me feel that I’m contributing to the welfare of Zimbabweans,” he said. Mr Moyo said his wife had since joined him as a blood donor. He said his wife’s brother was involved in an accident last year and was able to receive free blood because his  wife is a blood donor. “Being a blood donor is being a life giver. I may not have many material things to give to other people but I feel happy that I’m extending a lifeline to tens of people I may never meet in life. I used to work outside the country so I sometimes faced challenges in giving my timely donations but I would make it a point to ask for off days in order to travel home and donate blood for my brothers and sisters in need,” said Mr Moyo. He said he travels to the city to donate blood when he is due, even when he has no other business in town as he now spends most of his time in the rural areas. Mr Satambwe from Nketa 8 suburb, said he started donating blood in 1980 when the National Blood Service of Zimbabwe (NBSZ) visited the factory where he was working. He said he was moved by a public lecture on the need for blood in hospitals after accidents at work, on the roads, after surgery and other such circumstances. “I was inspired to give blood by NBSZ people who came to Monarch Steel where I used to work and explained the importance of donating blood. I was,  like many blacks reluctant to donate blood due to culture beliefs, but following the visit I changed,” said Mr Satambwe. He said the realisation that he could one day be injured at work or in an accident, fall sick and needed blood made him change his mind and started giving blood. Both men said at first they were criticised by family members and friends who did not understand why they subscribed to a culture of donating blood. Young adults are urged to continue donating in order to meet the rising demand for blood as Zimbabwe strives to improve its health delivery system to meet the World Health Organisation Sustainable Development Goals on health. According to WHO, transfusion of blood and blood products helps save millions of lives every year. It can help patients suffering from life-threatening conditions live longer and supports complex medical and surgical procedures. It also has an essential life-saving role in maternal and child care as well as during disasters. A blood service that gives patients access to safe blood and blood products in sufficient quantities is a key component of an effective health system. An adequate supply can only be ensured through regular donations by voluntary donors. Blood services in many countries however face the challenge of making sufficient blood available while also ensuring its quality and safety. Zimbabwe is one of the African countries where there are active blood donors but the challenge is that at times NBSZ’s blood stocks cannot meet demand. As the festive season is upon us, it is a time unfortunately marred by lots of accidents and incidents, sometimes crime related that lead to serious life-threatening injury which may require a lot of blood transfusions. It is the duty of every Zimbabwean to ensure that the blood is never wanting and should the need arise, there are enough blood stocks to reach out to every life in need. The blood stocks can only be replenished by you and me. We are the mobile blood bank and there is a hero in every one of us. — @andile_tshuma