The Chronicle Tomorrow, Zimbabwe marks the 32nd anniversary of the signing of the Unity Accord. Signed on December 22, 1987, in Harare by the then Zanu-PF and PF Zapu leaders Mr Robert Mugabe and Dr Joshua Nkomo respectively, the pact ended civil disturbances that were happening in parts of Matabeleland region and Midlands Province. Thanks to that agreement too, Zanu-PF and PF Zapu merged to form Zanu-PF.  That unity had to reflect in Government as well thus Dr Nkomo took up the position of Vice-President while Mr Mugabe, who had served as Prime Minister since Independence in 1980, became the first executive President of the republic. The disturbances had broken out in 1982, resulting in the country being  destablised substantially socially, politically and economically. This ended five years later and that peace has endured since then. Thirty two years on, we still value the Unity Accord because of the peace and tranquility it ushered into our nation.  It is because of that peace and tranquility that the country had developed commendably although we have to state the near reversal of that development because of Western sanctions. Yes, there have been challenges here and there, and sanctions remain in place but Zimbabwe is one of the most stable, peaceful and developed countries on the continent. We, thus, look back with much pride hopeful that that unity ushered in by the Unity Accord would continue to define our country forever. We, too, urge our people not to take the prevailing peace for granted as some among us tend to do. They just have to look at the Democratic Republic of Congo, Libya or South Sudan to appreciate how devastating disunity and disorder can do to our country. Zanu-PF secretary for information and publicity, Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said in a statement this week that unity is the glue to any stability, development and prosperity in both political, economic and social terms.  He said the Unity Accord cannot be wished away. He however expressed unhappiness that over the past 32 years, there are no formal programmes to mark that very important day. “It is most disheartening to note that although December 22 is a public holiday in honour of the Unity Accord, there are no visible activities across the country depicting such a political milestone,” he said. “The young people virtually know nothing about the importance of this day. “Our late leaders who spearheaded this revolutionary miracle must be turning in their graves over such silent development. “The National Commissariat department might consider organising rallies and other activities to commemorate this historic occasion across the country. “Efforts to minimise and derail the significance of this day must be discouraged and eliminated. The Unity Accord has no provision for factionalism. No one should lead or belong to a faction.” He added: “It is, therefore, incumbent upon all of us to commemorate Unity Day by reflecting and stocktaking our actions as we endeavour to fully subscribe to our Party’s Motto of Unity, Peace and Development.  There must be no lip service to Unity Day.  The Unity Accord must be the heartbeat of our body politic. It is not a day for leisure but for reflection, underscored by the fact that thousands perished, hundreds were maimed and displaced, homes destroyed and livestock looted, for us to gain freedom and independence. We have just concluded our 18th National People’s Conference under the theme ‘Mechanise, Modernise and grow the economy towards Vision 2030.’  Our focus is on productivity, growth of the economy and creation of jobs. Zimbabwe is indeed open for business and this is only possible through Unity and Peace.  Long live the Unity Accord.” We agree with Cde Khaya Moyo that the country, starting from the ruling party itself, must organise events to commemorate that day in the same manner we commemorate Independence Day and Heroes’ Day.  Doing that brings the notion of unity closer to the people’s hearts; it immortalises that moment when Cdes Mugabe and Nkomo shook hands after they had signed the Unity Accord. The youths will get to know the foundation of the national unity, peace and tranquillity that is prevailing in the country. We have to state that the Government did a good thing by declaring December 22 of every year a national holiday.  However, taking it further to stage events to formally mark the day is crucial.