The Chronicle Freedom Mupanedemo, Midlands Bureau First Lady Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa has said the country is set to benefit from the exchange of agricultural expertise programme with some Chinese organisations that will soon be inviting farmers to the Asian nation for specialised training. Speaking to journalists after touring the First Family’s Pricabe Farm in Sherwood outside Kwekwe with officials from a Chinese firm, China Lesso Group on Christmas Day, Amai Mnangagwa said she was happy the firm had agreed to invite farmers for training in China. The First Lady said when she visited China recently, she went around meeting potential investors across sectors in a trip which resulted in a high-powered Chinese delegation from the China Lesso Group visiting the country. “When I went there (China)… as a citizen I had to sell my country to them (Chinese investors) to say come to Zimbabwe and do something. But I am mostly interested in what they said, that they are prepared to train farmers, they will invite farmers there for training to get more experience,” she said. China Lesso Group General Manager, Mr Tang Hai Bo, who was heading the seven-member delegation, said they were very impressed with the state of agriculture in the country. He said the country has a potential to grow significantly with improved infrastructure. “What we have seen here at the President’s farm is very impressive. We have toured irrigation farms and around the area as well as in Mashonaland West and Zimbabwe has a great potential to improve in terms of agriculture,” he said. Midlands provincial crop and livestock Officer Mrs Madeline Magwenzi commended the First Lady for her commitment to improve agriculture in the country. “We are very happy with the efforts by our First Lady in making sure that Zimbabwe gets back to its status as the bread basket of southern Africa. I was lucky to be part of the team she took to China recently, the trip was indeed fruitful as evidenced by this Chinese delegation which is eager to work with us in the Agricultural sector,” she said.