The Chronicle President Mnangagwa on Wednesday launched the Sakubva Urban Renewal Project, an initiative to modernise the old and rundown suburb. The project is aimed at turning Mutare City into a Smart City in line with Government’s Vision 2030. The project is being bankrolled by BancABC and the first phase will see an injection of US$8 million ($148 million) by the bank. It is a tripartite arrangement being spearheaded by Plan Infrastructure Development (PID) and Mutare City Council has availed 225 hectares for the project. PID is the consultant in the Sakubva Urban Renewal initiative which has been granted National Project Status. The project involves the construction of high rise flats, upgrading of Sakubva flea market, Sakubva Musika long distance bus terminus, Sakubva Stadium, Sakubva Beit Hall and Sakubva vegetable market. Speaking at the launch, President Mnangagwa said when the Second Republic came into office, Government resolved to upgrade cities in line with its vision to grow its economy to an upper middle income by 2030. He said in order to achieve an upper middle income economy a lot needs to be done to upgrade roads, bridges, schools, clinics, houses and other infrastructure in line with modern cities and towns. He said the renewal of old suburbs should therefore spread to all cities and towns. In Harare the 1920s Matapi flats were upgraded and similar projects should be undertaken to upgrade suburbs such as Makokoba and Mzilikazi in Bulawayo, Mtapa and Mambo in Gweru, Makusha in Shurugwi and other such suburbs in other cities and towns. President Mnanagwa said some of the old houses should have long been demolished because they are no longer fit for human habitation.  It is disappointing that 39 years after independence we still have residents sharing communal toilets and bathrooms in some cities and towns. It is difficult for such residents to maintain high levels of hygiene while sharing facilities such as toilets and bathrooms. These residents are therefore vulnerable to waterborne diseases such as typhoid and diarrhoea. We want to commend BancABC for taking such a bold decision to bankroll the Mutare Urban Renewal Project which will turn Mutare into a Smart City. We want at this juncture to call on other financial institutions to partner other local authorities to enable them to embark on similar Urban Renewal projects. The renewal projects will definitely impact positively on the residents’ lives as they will not only guarantee decent accommodation but also come with modern facilities such as markets, termini and other such public facilities. Councils on their part should come up with incentives to entice financial institutions to fund renewal projects which will turn their cities or towns into Smart cities or towns. The renewal projects could be implemented in phases as what is happening in Mutare starting with the worst affected suburbs to lessen the burden on those providing the funding.