The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent We are smack in the middle of the festive season and the next 11 days are crucial for anyone who wants to have some fun all throughout the holiday in Bulawayo. Friends and relatives from the diaspora have arrived in droves with some well on their way with the much-needed forex, goodies and drinks so people can latch on and enjoy the fruits of their hard labour. But while they are here, there is a search of where people can have the time of their lives and create memories. Saturday Leisure today suggests some key spots in and around the city where people can take their friends, relatives and loved ones this festive season. BAC Leisure South Africa’s hip hop sensation Sjava will be holding a show there tomorrow alongside Ngaaibake hit-maker Freeman, Cal Vin, Asaph and Mzoe 7. But in between, this has become one of the spots for people to enjoy their weekends as revellers flock there on any given night because of the joint’s ambience. The joint also opens during the day. Queens Sports Club A show dubbed “Bulawayo 2019 Shutdown” will be held on December 28. It will see South Africa’s Nasty C, De Mthuda, Killer Kau, Mafikizolo and Zimbabwe’s Winky D, Asaph, Lee Mc’Honey and Cal Vin form part of a massive line-up of artistes billed to rock Bulawayo during the festive season. Cosmopolitan Night Club The nightspot will host house music guru Da Capo on December 24. This show will be for those who understand the intricacies of house music, know and follow Da Capo as a brand. Besides that, Cosmo as the joint is called, will be a hive of activity throughout the holiday. It is a must visit joint for the upmarket clientele. Private Lounge Always a hit among visitors who will be in denial that the country now has raunchy dancers. This is one place for the adventurous crowds who enjoy X-rated entertainment. Club 263 For the youngsters mainly groomed in the ghetto, this is a place where all the fun till the wee hours of the morning is unpacked. Vibrant dance groups, good music is the order of the day and with the festive season upon us, people should expect fireworks. Hartsfield Tshisanyama As from this past Wednesday until January 9, the outdoor braai spot is open daily. A perfect Chillspot, Hartsfield offers an array of braai meat and drinks and is family friendly. Mazinyane Situated along Plumtree road, this has become one of the must go to places in Bulawayo, as it is one of the city’s premium braai spots. It has become the place friends, family and even companies go to for lunch in a relaxed atmosphere without the loud sounding PA system. Blue Turkey If one cannot travel to this joint’s sister spots, Redwood and Es’bayeni for the same experience, then Blue Turkey in Morningside is the place to be as it has the same vibe of being an outdoor braai joint with a relaxing ambience and good music. KoChigumira in Luveve The leisure spot has an open-air sitting area for patrons to enjoy their meals.  Other than their juicy meat, this place is popular for its rare green salad made with of cucumber, tomatoes, onions, avocado, pears and apples. White City Stadium A Tshibilika Festival will be held on Unity Day at the venue. A plethora of groups Inkunzi Kaslanke & Lupane Original, Tsholotsho Great Sounds, D Lusinga, Mthutha Express, Mabonisa Express Band, Matabeleland Young Brothers, W Mangena and Queen In G will be on the menu. Smokehouse (Busters Sports Club) The pick me up nightspot in Bulawayo has become a haven for revellers to come together and jumpstart the night. With smooth house music and other forms of EDM, Smokehouse is always packed on a daily basis. The best thing one should do is get there early, by 6PM at least so that they can get somewhere to sit. Tin Cup (Suburbs) Munch & Sip food market has become a hit in the city and it will be held again for two days starting on December 23. This will be a perfect family outing and holiday treat as soulful crooner MJ Sings will be performing. Zarah Lounge This place has a relaxed atmosphere for a mature clientele that appreciates the finer things in life. The pub is fit for those that visit it during the day for lunches and dinner and the ones that want to imbibe and dance the night away. It’s open every day. Havana Elite Cigar Café Newly opened, the joint is already a hit among revellers. It is situated behind Cubanna where a spacious area was painted and it looks exquisite. Themed around the Cuban capital city, it gives revellers a South American experience in drinks and food, except the music of course. Pub Lagondola The city’s shebeen will give those who want that township feel a nice outing considering that it is located in the CBD. It is open every day. 