The Chronicle Sharon Buwerimwe/Michell Zvanyanya, Chronicle Reporters ZANU-PF Politburo member Cde Lewis Matutu yesterday urged youths to be exemplary by embracing their history and remaining united. He said youths should not compromise when it comes to commemorating Unity Day as it is part of their history. “We were at Davies Hall in Bulawayo, addressing citizens on commemorations of Unity Day targeting youths because they should know their roots. Unity Day is one of the most important days on our calendar, it is worth celebrating and can never be erased,” he said. “Zimbabweans must understand that everything they do, they are not just doing it for themselves but for their country. People must understand that come year 2020, everyone must work to contribute to economic development.” Posting on his Twitter page yesterday, Cde Matutu said: “Our Unity must be used towards productivity and hardwork at all levels of our societies. We should honour the sacrifice made by our leaders in the revolution to bring Unity in our country through love and respect for peace and development.” “The unity that was born on 22 December 1987 was a result of selfless leadership and patriotism, it marked the birth of a Zimbabwe for all and restored the dignity of Zimbabwean men and women.” Recently, Zanu-PF called for the holding of programmes during the Unity Day holiday for the citizens especially the youth to embrace and appreciate the peace and unity prevailing in the country. Party secretary for information and publicity Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said it was disheartening that no clear programmes have been made to celebrate the important day. “Unity is the glue to any stability, development and prosperity in political, economic and social terms. The Unity Accord of 22 December 1987 which brought together erstwhile liberation movements of Zanu (PF) and PF Zapu into Zanu-PF and whose respective liberation armies before Independence were Zanla and Zipra, cannot be wished away,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. “It is most disheartening to note that although December 22 is a public holiday in honour of the Unity Accord there are no visible activities across the country depicting such a political milestone.” — @michellzvanyanyan2 @sharonbuwe