The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter WORLD Vision Zimbabwe has undertaken to reconstruct Komba Primary School in Lupane which was destroyed by a storm last month. The school requires more than $450 000 to replace damaged property, according to a bill of quantity prepared by the Civil Protection Unit (CPU) after visiting the school early this month. The CPU has mobilised about $100 000 to assist the school and the family of a Grade One pupil, Mbekezeli Nleya, who died when one of the school houses was destroyed by a storm on November 10. In a statement, World Vision said it had sourced roofing material to refurbish the school before the January 2020 school terms begins. “All material required to repair the classroom blocks and cottages as well as build a new cottage has been procured and is on its way to Komba Primary School. The target is to repair the buildings before schools open,” read part of the statement from World Vision. A team from World Vision visited the school last week to assess the situation and prepare for the delivery of the material. World Vision advised the school authorities to use the money from the CPU for other needs at the school. Lupane District Development Coordinator Mrs Ennerty Sithole who chairs the district CPU confirmed the gesture although she could not be drawn to give details as she was not in her office yesterday. The strong wind that hit the school blew off roofs of seven classroom blocks and three teachers’ cottages. Windowpanes were shattered and a perimeter fence and blocks of toilets destroyed after huge trees fell on them. Mbekezeli’s mother Ms Portia Mafu, an Early Childhood Development teacher and Mbekezeli’s sibling Pertunia Dube, a Form Two pupil at the nearby Vulindlela Secondary, were injured after they were hit by falling roofing sheets and were treated and discharged at St Luke’s Hospital. More than 30 homesteads in Ward 16’s Gudubhu Village were also damaged by the storm. Local Government and Public Works Deputy Minister Marian Chombo visited the school a few weeks ago and appealed to a cross section of society to assist the school and the bereaved family. Insiza Godlwayo, a local non-governmental organisation donated stationery and some learning materials. The organisation also provided social workers to work at the school. — @ncubeleon