The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter ERRATIC fuel supply is hampering food aid distribution in Matabeleland North, Provincial Affairs Minister Richard Moyo said yesterday. He said the livelihood of villagers was under threat as deliveries were being delayed owing to diesel shortages across the country. “Fuel is scarce of late and you may find probably just one or two service stations have fuel. This has really affected the drought relief programmes such as food aid distribution as there would be no fuel across town,” said the Minister in a telephone interview. He said he had since pleaded for supplies from players in the fuel sector to be able to carry out drought relief programmes and the tillage programmes for vulnerable communities before it was too late into the planting season. “I have been writing letters to all Redan Service Stations across the province, pleading with them to at least allow us to buy diesel so that we can get food to the people as they are on the verge of starvation yet government has ensured that grain is available,’ he said. He said the business community and some members of the public were keen to assist with transport for grain to different districts but were unable to do because of the fuel shortage. “Members of the public have been forthcoming and have tried to assist us with transport. However, their spirits have also been dampened by the fact that they also would not be able to fuel their cars.  Even if they have the money, fuel is not available,” he said. He said the tillage programme was also struggling to cultivate farming land for people at a time when the cropping season was in full swing, due to the prevailing fuel shortages. “We have also faced challenges with our District Development Fund (DDF) Tillage programme also owing to the fuel challenges. By now we should have had covered a lot of ground tilling land for vulnerable communities but these diesel shortages have also stalled our projects,” Minister Moyo said. -@andile_tshuma