The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT has extended again the nurse e-recruitment deadline, this time to December 22 and urged prospective students to keep on trying logging in to the portal to submit their applications after indications of continued system glitches. In a telephone interview yesterday, the Director of Nursing Services in the Ministry of Health and Child Care Dr Cynthia Chasokela said the ministry together with its partners at Chinhoyi University of Technology had updated the system and prospective nurses are expected to now easily submit their applications. “I was talking to our IT department and they have been working with our partner, Chinhoyi University of Technology and just about an hour ago, today (yesterday), I was informed that the system had been updated and it was all systems go. Prospective applicants are therefore expected to be able to submit applications without glitches. “But I would like to urge people not to give up just after a few tries, the platform is open 24 hours a day so they can keep trying, especially at non-peak hours,” said Dr Chasokela. The ministry further extended the deadline to December 22 from December 8 which had been set from an initial November 30 deadline. Dr Chasokela said the extension was meant to be a window period for applicants who were having data access challenges, particularly in rural areas and needed more time to access the service. Government extended the e-recruitment deadline to December 8 last week after the process hit a snag as the payment portal was down. The network glitches left thousands of prospective applicants stranded and in panic mode. In a statement recently, the Health Ministry said no school of nursing in the country will recruit directly and no third parties have been requested to recruit on behalf of the health ministry. The Ministry said successful candidates will be deployed anywhere where training posts are available across the country. “Only candidates who meet the recruitment will be shortlisted for interviews. Successful candidates will be informed via the MOHCC Electronic Platform and are required to have a satisfactory Medical Examination conducted by a Government medical officer. “Accepted candidates will be deployed to where training posts exist throughout the country. Unsuccessful applicants will be advised through the MOHCC Recruitment platform,” said the Ministry. — @andile_tshuma