The Chronicle Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau IMMIGRATION authorities from Zimbabwe and South Africa have arrested 1 944 undocumented travellers and intercepted 179 children who were being smuggled into either country at Beitbridge Border Post in the last two weeks. Officials from the two countries have intensified the fight against child smuggling at Sadc’ busiest inland port of entry as increased holidaymakers visit the two countries. The arrests were made between December 1 and 15. A further 28 immigrants from South Africa, Nigeria, Malawi, Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi and DRC were denied entry into Zimbabwe for not having visas or funds to sustain their stay in Zimbabwe while some had no valid travel documents. The Assistant Regional Immigration (ARIO) officer in charge Beitbridge, Mr Nqobile Ncube, said since the beginning of the festive season they have been rounding up people attempting to smuggle children into either country. He said they had intercepted eight people attempting to smuggle a total of 179 minors during the period under review. “Our enforcement team at Beitbridge Border Post has intercepted 179 minors that have been sent to the Department of Social Services after they were found to be undocumented or in the company of unauthorised persons,” said Mr Ncube. He said since the beginning of the month, eight people were arrested for offences relating to the smuggling of minors and six of the cases have been concluded at courts.  “The Department is working in conjunction with all security agencies and our Department of Home Affairs (South Africa) counterparts to ensure the safety of children, efficient and convenient travel for all legitimate travellers. “We still reiterate the need to travel in time to avoid last minute rushes, the avoidance of contracting smugglers to convey children and we look forward to helping ensure that everybody is at home in time for Christmas”. Mr Ncube said parents should desist from putting their children at risk by engaing criminals to smuggle them either to Zimbabwe or SA. He said they had deployed immigration security guards on the ground and were impounding cars which were being used to ferry the children. “We are sending all the culprits to court for prosecution on charges of child smuggling and irregular migration. Others are being charged for facilitating the illegal movement of people across the borders,” said Mr Ncube. Mr Ncube said those who have been sent to court were convicted and fined between $1 000 and $2 000. He said most of the intercepted children are from Bulawayo, Harare and Chiredzi and their destination in South Africa is mainly Johannesburg in Gauteng Province. The transporters charge between R2 000 and R3 000 to illegally move children to either country.  Illegal immigrants are vulnerable to a number of criminal vices including robberies, murder and rape.