The Chronicle The country has witnessed an upsurge in cases of armed robbery during the past few weeks, a confirmation that guns are in the wrong hands. What is disturbing is the coincidence of the festive season and the increase in cases of armed robberies. This is the time when people in the Diaspora especially from neighbouring South Africa and Botswana return home for the Christmas and New Year holidays. It is therefore difficult to rule out the possibility of increased cases of smuggling of guns from SA by returning Zimbabweans. Most of the robbers are armed with guns and it is only in SA where it is easy to access guns. The robbers who are after cash, are targeting business premises, homes and illegal foreign currency dealers. People’s lives are at risk and something must be done urgently to address this problem. There is a need to tighten controls at the Beitbridge Border Post to reduce cases of smuggling of guns into the country. In Zimbabwe an individual cannot just walk into a shop and buy a gun.  When one needs a gun, he or she has to go through a process that includes vetting by the police. The person must also justify the need for such a weapon. The owners of guns are then issued with licences and the police from time to time can check on the use of the weapons. Most guns that are being used to commit robberies are not licensed. We suspect most of them were smuggled from SA by Zimbabweans who are probably involved in robberies in the neighbouring country. Two weeks ago a 15-man gang brandishing an AK47 rifle and machetes allegedly attacked shop owners at Gobathema Business Centre in Guyu, Gwanda, and left with cash in different currencies and groceries. The gang allegedly fired shots into the air and sent patrons at night spots scurrying for cover. The gang then moved from door to door ransacking shops and demanding cash. Shop owners who resisted were attacked with machetes and one was left unconscious. A week later another eight-man gang brandishing a pistol raided Pick Wick Mine in Sun Yet Sen in Matobo and left with 22 grammes of gold and cash in different currencies. A number of armed robberies have been reported in Bulawayo and Harare and many families that keep large amounts of money at home have fallen victim. Police have repeatedly warned members of the public not to keep large amounts of money at home or business premises as this attracts robbers. The upsurge in cases of armed robberies is therefore a cause for concern. Residents’ lives are at risk as their security is no longer guaranteed. What is not in dispute is that robbers live among communities and it should be members of these communities who should provide information to the police. It is therefore incumbent upon each and every citizen to assist the police rid society of these undesirable elements. Most of these robbers spend the day with their families and relatives and turn robbers at night. It should be the responsibility of each and every citizen to identify such elements and report them to the police. Those that provide sanctuary to criminals are accomplices in crime and should not cry foul when police pounce on them. Residents should not hesitate to report suspicious people to the police so that they are put under surveillance.