The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A 65-YEAR-OLD Filabusi man has appeared in court for allegedly raping his neighbour’s nine-year-old daughter on several occasions each time her grandmother sent her to his home. The grandmother used to send the complainant to the accused’s home with tobacco for sale and he would allegedly rape her. He was asked not to plead when he appeared briefly before Gwanda magistrate, Mrs Nomagugu Sibanda, facing a rape charge. He was remanded in custody to January 9. Prosecuting, Miss Faith Mutukwa said the accused first raped the juvenile in June last year and the offence came to light on September 22 this year after her grandmother noticed some money which he had given to the complainant. “In June last year the complainant was sent by her grandmother to the accused’s homestead to deliver some tobacco which was for sale. When she arrived the accused directed the complainant into his bedroom hut and told her to leave the tobacco there. “While she was inside the accused ordered the complainant to lie on a mat and remove her clothes. The complainant refused and the accused went on to forcibly remove the clothes and raped her. From June and September last year accused raped the complainant on several occasions. The complainant did not report the rape because each time the accused raped her, he gave her some money,” she said. Miss Mutukwa said on September 22 this year the complainant’s grandmother went to attend a funeral and left her granddaughter alone at home. She said at around 11AM  accused arrived at the complainant’s home to collect some tobacco and found her alone. Miss Mutukwa said the accused summoned the complainant to his home and she complied and he raped her and gave her $3. “Upon her return from the funeral the complainant’s grandmother discovered that the complainant had some money and asked where she had got it from. She revealed that she got the money from the accused and that the accused raped her several times giving her money to buy her silence. The matter was reported to the police leading to the accused’s arrest,” she said. — @DubeMatutu