The Chronicle Freedom Mupanedemo, Midlands Bureau THE MDC Alliance’s dismal performance in the Shurugwi council by-election at the weekend has left the opposition party’s provincial structures in tatters with some calling for a change of leadership right up to national level including the party president. The party was clobbered by Zanu-PF which retained the seat with its, candidate, Cde Edmore Chitera garnering 396 votes against MDC Alliance Ms Marry Choga’s paltry 16 votes. The poor performance by the opposition in the by-election has left many in the party questioning the leadership’s clout to challenge the ruling party in future elections. “I think this kind of performance by our party is a clear reflection that something is wrong with our leadership. We need to change our leadership both at provincial level and national level if we are to challenge Zanu-PF in the next election,” said a senior MDC Alliance Midlands provincial official who, fearing reprisals from the party, requested anonymity. The official said there were a lot of divisions within the party provincial structures which he said were contributing to the poor performance in recent elections. “These divisions are affecting our party and the leadership has failed to deal with these divisions that saw the province fielding parallel candidates in last year elections. These squabbles continue to rock the party and leadership has failed to contain it even at national level. “What it means is that we also need to change leadership even at national level,” said the official. MDC Alliance Shurugwi district member, Mr Ishmael Zano admitted that the party lacked a strategy to match Zanu-PF in elections. “Besides lack of strategy, we are not provided with resources to campaign for the party. Imagine Zanu-PF officials from the province have been camped in Shurugwi two weeks before the actual date of the elections campaigning. I did not see any senior MDC official from the province that came for the campaigns hence it’s not a surprise we lost embarrassingly,” he said. MDC provincial chair, Mr Josiah Makombe conceded defeat but blamed what he claimed was an “uneven playing field” for the dismal performance by the party. Mr Makombe, who is also Gweru City mayor, however, denied there were divisions in the party.