The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter A tout ganged up with his colleagues and allegedly attacked a kombi driver, damaged his vehicle, sexually harassed women passengers before stealing money from one of the commuters. Bulawayo magistrate Mr Jeconiah Ncube heard this when Ayanda Siyanda Dube (24) of Old Magwegwe suburb appeared before him on Tuesday facing charges of indecent assault, malicious damage to property, theft and assault. Mr Ncube heard how Dube confronted the kombi driver Mr Thembinkosi Ndlovu (36) while he was loading passengers at Herbert Chitepo Street and 11th Avenue in the city’s Central Business District and demanded money before attacking him for refusing to comply. When passengers tried to intervene, Dube allegedly turned the heat on them and fondled some of the women’s breasts and touched their buttocks while at the same time assaulting them. Dube was remanded in custody to January 6. Prosecuting, Mr Nkathazo Dlodlo said on December 22 at around 4AM, Mr Ndlovu was loading passengers at Herbert Chitepo Street and 11th Avenue when Dube confronted him. The accused person and his colleagues allegedly demanded money from the complainant before attacking him for refusing to comply. The court heard that when passengers tried to intervene, Dube became violent and in the process damaged the vehicle’s sliding door. “When the complainant tried to fix the door, the accused person continued to attack him. Some of the passengers tried to restrain Dube but he turned on them and punched them,” said Mr Dlodlo. When one of the female passengers who had already paid the fare demanded a refund, Dube turned violent and verbally assaulted her using obscenities before fondling her breasts. The court heard that when another complainant’s friend tried to restrain Dube, he slapped her on the face and she fell down. Dube continued fondling the woman’s breasts and touched her buttocks. He then pulled down the complainant’s pair of trousers in a bid to undress her. “During the scuffle, the complainant’s pair of trousers was torn and she also sustained head injuries and a swollen face,” said Mr Dlodlo. Another couple which was in the kombi demanded its money back, Dube shouted at them before fondling the woman’s breasts. “When the woman’s husband tried to protect his wife, the accused person slapped him on the face and he bled through the nose. The scuffle continued as Dube continued fondling the woman while indiscriminately punching her,” said Mr Dlodlo. The court heard that Dube took the complainant’s jacket and US$20 and tore her t-shirt. A report was made to the police leading to Dube’s arrest but the stolen money was not recovered. — @mashnets