The Chronicle Michell Zvanyanya, Chronicle Reporter THE Environmental Management Agency (EMA) has expressed concern over the increase in urban crop cultivation in undesignated areas that is contributing to degradation of wetlands. In a statement yesterday, EMA national spokesperson Ms Amkela Sidange said urban dwellers were cultivating in open spaces including fragile ecosystems like wetlands and stream banks. She said this has contributed to more than 79 percent of the available wetlands in Zimbabwe being severely degraded contributing to an ecological crisis in the country. “The rainy season has activated the cropping season and a lot of people are busy cultivating trying to take advantage of the available moisture from the recent rains. Urban communities have joined too in the activity which traditionally was associated with rural areas and specific farming areas. However, it is getting worrisome because cultivation in urban areas is taking place on every open space, including fragile ecosystems like wetlands and stream banks,”  Ms Sidange said. “When cultivation is done in the mentioned ecosystems, it leads to their degradation. For instance, wetlands in Zimbabwe cover just three percent of the total land area of the country, which translates to an estimated 0,26 million hectares, but despite being such an insignificant statistic, wetlands have a vital ecological role which includes among many others, striking a balance in water quality and quantity. Their degradation therefore simply implies loss of underground water recharge system resulting in drying up of boreholes and water bodies like rivers and dams, which is very familiar of late.” She said such farming activities are in violation of regulations under Statutory Instrument (SI) 7 of 2007 which aims at protecting wetlands from human interference and ensuring their sustainable utilisation. Ms Sidange said according to the SI any activity carried out on protected ecosystems such as wetlands attracts prosecution measures on offenders. “According to Section 20 of Statutory Instrument 7 of 2007, it is an offence to carry out any operations in a protected ecosystem such as wetlands, river banks and streams. Anyone who contravenes this section is liable to a fine not exceeding level fourteen or imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months; or to both such fine and imprisonment,” she said. Ms Sidange said people in urban areas must first seek guidance from local authorities in carrying out agricultural activities to ensure that they do so in recommended areas. She urged residents to desist from cultivating in sensitive ecosystems like wetlands and streams, saying it promotes destruction of sources of life for all living things, people included. -@michellzvanyanyan2