The Chronicle London — Jose Mourinho says his time at Manchester United is “a closed chapter” and he is only interested in beating them when he takes his in-form side to Old Trafford on Wednesday. It is the new Tottenham manager’s first return to the touchline at United’s home ground since his sacking by the club last December. “This is a closed chapter for me,” said Mourinho, who has won all three of his matches in charge of Spurs. “I left the club, I took my time to process everything that happened, I took my time to prepare myself for the next challenge. “Honestly, United for me is in my book of experiences, it’s in my history book.” United are struggling under Mourinho’s successor, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, but go into the game just two points behind fifth-placed Spurs. “It’s not for me to analyse United now,” Mourinho said at his pre-match press conference. “I analyse them as an opponent, how they play. How can we beat them? How can they beat us? For me that is the important thing.” Mourinho is excited about the prospect of returning to Old Trafford. He said: “I feel good, I like to play big matches, I like to play against the best teams and go back to a place where I was happy. “I have a great relationship with the Manchester United supporters. I went back as a pundit and I was humbled by such a beautiful reception. “Tomorrow I go back as the coach of the team that will try and beat Manchester United. “I understand that what they want is the exact opposite of what I want. Of course, during the match I expect them to forget me.” Reports say Spurs midfielder Christian Eriksen has refused to sign a new deal with the club, while there has been speculation over the futures of Belgian defenders; Toby Alderweireld and Jan Vertonghen. Mourinho said he was speaking with Spurs chairman Daniel Levy about the contract issues but refused to be drawn on the details. “I’m not going to discuss these individual things,” he said. “If I tell you that I didn’t speak with Mr (Daniel) Levy about Eriksen, Alderweireld and Vertonghen, I would be lying. So, yes I’m speaking with Mr Levy about it.” “The important thing, really, is (they are) great professionals, big relationship with Tottenham, amazing understanding of what the club is and what we need from them,” he added. “So, all three ready to play, all three ready to forget the contractual situation.” Meanwhile, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says he does not fear for his future as Manchester United manager despite a spate of Premier League sackings as he prepares to face his predecessor Jose Mourinho. Spurs turned to Mourinho after dismissing Mauricio Pochettino last month, while Arsenal and Watford have subsequently sacked Unai Emery and Quique Sanchez Flores. Solskjaer is under increasing pressure, with United ninth in the Premier League, 22 points behind leaders Liverpool and eight off a top-four spot as they prepare for Wednesday’s match against Tottenham. “No, it doesn’t make me more concerned,” Solskjaer said at his pre-match press conference on Tuesday. “I’m just focusing on my job and that’s just doing as well as I can, and look forward to the next game, and look long-term, plan things with board. “It’s that time of year. It’s never nice to see your colleagues lose your jobs — three in a very short space of time. “It’s a game of margins,” he added. “Sometimes you have luck, sometimes you don’t, but it doesn’t make me any more concerned that it’s December. “I’m good, absolutely no problem. Sometimes you laugh when you read stories about what I’ve said and stuff, at least I know the sources are just made up, blatant lies.” The United boss bemoaned his team’s failure to turn draws into wins, saying they were not getting the results their football deserved. The club are winless in three games and Solskjaer’s job will not get any easier with a derby against Manchester City on Saturday to follow the game against Mourinho’s Spurs side. The Norwegian, though, dismissed any need for crisis talks with the United board. “Three days or four days are not going to change a whole lot, but these two games are great chances for us to prove things and prove to ourselves that we can continue in the vein we have had against some of the better sides,” he said. Solskjaer expects Mourinho to receive a warm welcome when he returns to Old Trafford a year after being sacked, having won the League Cup and Europa League during his time in charge. “We know we have to improve, we are working hard to do that right and when you change a manager halfway through the season (it) isn’t where it is supposed to be,” said the Norwegian. “I don’t think whoever the manager of the opposition team is will change their motivation (of the players),” he said. “They are motivated to do well for Man Utd, because they know it’s about improving every day in training and every time you step on that pitch it’s a chance to prove you can be part of this long term. That has always been the case at Man Utd.” United will still be without the injured Paul Pogba but Scott McTominay and Nemanja Matic will be assessed as Solskjaer looks at his midfield options. Fixtures Today: Leicester City v Watford (King Power Stadium 21:30), Wolverhampton Wanderers v West Ham United (Molineux Stadium 21:30), Manchester United v Tottenham Hotspur (Old Trafford 21:30), Southampton v Norwich City (St. Mary’s Stadium 21:30), Chelsea v Aston Villa (Stamford Bridge 21:30), Liverpool v Everton (Anfield 22:15). Tomorrow: Sheffield United v Newcastle United (Bramall Lane 21:30), Arsenal v Brighton & Hove Albion (Emirates Stadium 22:15). — AFP.