The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter HOSPITALITY group, Africa Albida Tourism (AAT), has been honoured for its exceptional conservation work in the tourism industry in the country. After one of its facilities, Victoria Falls Safari Lodge, was recently named the 5th top resort hotel in Africa by United States magazine, Travel + Leisure about five months ago, AAT was recently voted the best environmentally friendly hospitality group at the 2019 Circular & Plastics Innovation Award. This follows the company’s initiative to eliminate single-use plastic across its operations. The group’s marketing manager, Mrs Nommy Vuma, has also been named among the Top 10 corporate social responsibility managers in the country. The awards were presented at the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Network Zimbabwe Responsible Business awards event in Harare. They are based on the contribution made by individuals and organisations in the private and public sectors towards community development.AAT chief executive Mr Ross Kennedy said the hospitality group targets to be free of single-use plastic by 2021. “Being recognised for doing good things very well, especially when they make such a positive impact on community, conservation and indeed society is extremely rewarding and satisfying. “We are also so proud to see our individual team members and colleagues at Africa Albida Tourism recognised for their contribution, energy and dedication,” he added. Mr Kennedy said the hospitality group has replaced single-use plastic bottles with re-useable glass water bottles as it adopts zero tolerance to single-use plastic. AAT also launched Victoria Falls Recycling last year to recycle plastics, paper, beverage cans and glass in partnership with Greenline Africa. “Enormous respect and admiration must go to Andy Conn, Charlene Hewat and her team for their relentless endeavours to recycle and create opportunity and income for community members,” Mr Kennedy said in relation to the recycling initiative. AAT operates a portfolio of properties in Victoria Falls, with its flagship Victoria Falls Safari Lodge celebrating its 25th anniversary next month. Others are Victoria Falls Safari Club, Victoria Falls Safari Suites, Lokuthula Lodges-Victoria Falls and The Boma – Dinner & Drum Show. — @ncubeleon