The Chronicle Michell Zvanyanya, Chronicle Reporter THE Anglican Church at St Columba’s Parish in Makokoba held a memorial service for the late Reverend Canon Edward Burroughs who is the founder of St Columba’s High School.
He passed away on September 22 in 2009.
Rev Burroughs got married in 1987.
He is survived by his wife Lindiwe Burroughs and two children, Terence Mandlenkosi and Heather Sithembinkosi.
Addressing the Congregation during the memorial service yesterday, Mrs Burroughs described her husband as someone who had passion for St Columba’s and put his effort to build it to what it is today.
She said Rev Burroughs built St Columba’s High School to enrich childrens’ lives through provision of education and a good environment for them to learn.
“My husband knew that to build a better future for Zimbabwe, we need to enrich the childrens’ lives with a good education system. He knew that the future belongs to the children hence he helped many children financially so that they study and be able to reach their desired goals,” said Mrs Burroughs.
She expressed sorrow in that Rev Burroughs died before accomplishing his wish of putting up a granite plaque with the names and dates of the priests who had served the Lord at St Columba’s.
St Columba’s High School Board Chairperson, Engineer Edwin Nhando commended Rev Burroughs for setting up a school that has been among the top in the region since its inception.
He said the institution will continue performing well in fulfilling Rev Burroughs vision of providing basic education to children.
“Rev Burroughs successfully brought all this quality education that the children are acquiring today. As they say against all odds, given the challenges they had to go through he was able to set up this fantastic institution. On behalf of the school I would like to say we will not disappoint him because we are already enjoying the fruits of his vision. Our school has been amongst the top in the region for many years all thanks to the set up that was founded by Rev Burroughs,” said Eng Nhando.
St Columba’s High School has enviable infrastructure for both sport and academics.
The late Rev Burroughs was born in a humble home in Stroud England on January 28 in 1936 to Mr Edward Tedd Burroughs and Mrs Elizabeth Harriet Burroughs.
For his primary and secondary education Rev Burroughs went to Merlin school in the UK.
He graduated in Theology at King College in London.
After graduating he accepted the invitation from Bishop Skelton to come to Zimbabwe in 1963 where he began his work at St Columba’s.
@michellzvanyanyan2