The Chronicle Young people have the power to change the world. And for the better! The social media revolution unfolding before our eyes is fast changing the way the youth stay connected. No wonder academics coined the new terms like Generation Next or Generation Connected. But they need help to construct their future. A lot of it. Their behaviours are worrisome. They are faced with threatening challenges as most girls become mothers or are coerced if not forced into marriages. New HIV/Aids infections. Admitted these are winners of the future. We need to tape into their dynamism and one sure way is to encourage career-oriented learning! Career-oriented learning Career oriented subject combination is an approach encouraged by Trust Academy High School for learners in lower as well as upper secondary. The focus of the approach is that learners must think around what they desire to become in life as they select their subject combination. Memory Nguwi an Industrial  Psychologist advices that,  parents should assess their children at an early age to enable proper career advice. The assessment would give the cognitive/general mental aptitude ability profile, personality profile and career interests. What are parents expected to do now that results are out? The first thing parents should do when they receive their children’s results is to accept the outcome and plan from there. It is no use crying over spilt milk if the learner did not come out with the desired results. The next step to do is to check the subjects passed and find out if they fit their earlier career aspirations. If the subjects passed fit their career aspirations, they should proceed and do their A levels and train for the desired course. It is important for learners to do the subject combination that they want. Parents should not let their children to be forced to drop the subject combinations they want because the preferred school cannot provide that combination. Therefore, learners would rather change the school than change their preferred combinations since the learner’s career choice is shaped by the subject combination they chose. How can parents handle situations of children who have not done well in their in their exams? Parents must play a supportive, counselling and advisory role to their children. They should not put unnecessary pressure on their children as this can lead to negative consequences like suicide. Condemnation can also lead low self-esteem and cause learners to have negative attitude towards their school work. If a learner did not pass with good grades in the O-Level can they proceed to A-Level? If the learner came out with C grades, then we recommend that they do proceed to their A-Level as grade C shows that the learner has potential to do better. Some learners who have proceeded to A level having attained C grades at O-Level end up doing exceptionally well at A-Level. There are also learners who manage to pass with 3 or 4 O-Level subjects. These learners may also be given a chance to proceed to do A-Levels while they supplement for failed subjects. We take note that there are different circumstances that may cause learners to fail their O-Level for example the loss of a loved one during examination period. This has a psychological impact and even if that learner had shown potential to excel throughout the learning period, they may end up failing their final examinations. However, for learners who did not do very well and have not passed any O-Levels we recommend that they go back and supplement for failed subjects. On the other hand, for some learners the best option would be to consider enrolling for a course that can help them earn a living because not everyone is academically gifted. Some learners are good in vocational skills like woodwork and cooking and physical skills like sports. These should also be allowed to pursue their talents. What is the role of parents and children in choosing a career-oriented subject combination? Parents and guardians know their children traits and have an upper hand in knowing what is best for them. Career guidance should start at home; however, parents should avoid imposing their own dreams on their children and force them to do subject combinations that can lead to a career choice that they want themselves. For an example, a parent may have wanted to be a lawyer but due to circumstances they failed to pursue that dream and start forcing her or his child to pursue a career in law. Parents should, learn to support their children’s career choices for them to have fulfilling and satisfying lives. When people do jobs they enjoy, they perform exceptionally well at work and lead happy lives. On the other hand, when they follow someone else’s dream they will get frustrated at work. Parents should also support their children materially by providing resources needed in their different subject combinations, for example, buying computers for those doing computer lessons. How do schools help in selecting subject combinations for learners? Schools play a pivotal role in shaping the lives of learners including their future careers. When parents and children come to school to look for A-Level places, teachers and administrators should not prescribe the subjects combinations by just looking at the results. They should sit down with learners and discuss what the learners want and advise them appropriately instead of telling them what they must do. Sometimes parents and children come with different subject combinations, the school should extend a helping hand and not add to their confusion. Join our High achievers’ classes for 2019. Briefly explain what you mean by this. High achieving is a mindset. As Trust Academy the first thing we do when a learner comes in our school is to sit down and talk to them to instill in them a high achieving mindset. By providing continuous career guidance, we ensure that children remain focused and up to date on the different career opportunities in the market. We also encourage learners to work extra hours, reading books and research. This article is prepared and presented in the interest of providing free career guidance and counselling to all people who value education and training as a critical cornerstone to success in life. Alternatively, write to: mbindi@trustacademy.co.zw or WhatsApp 0773 616 665 or 0712 212 179.