The Chronicle Michell Zvanyanya, Chronicle Reporter POLICE in Bulawayo have arrested two suspects for allegedly stealing 50 metres of copper cables in Buena vista suburb while their third accomplice escaped. The accused persons were arrested by a patrol team at around 4AM on Monday after they intercepted the vehicle the suspects were using to ferry the copper cables from the intersection of Sherwood Drive and Esigodini Road in Woodlands suburb following a breakdown. Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango confirmed the arrest. She said the trio, whose identity was not revealed, took advantage of the power cuts in Buena vista to steal the copper cables. “I can confirm the arrest of two suspects for allegedly stealing 50 metres of copper cables whose value is yet to be ascertained. A team of members from the Business Against Crime Forum of Bulawayo, Crime Consultative Committee together with a member of the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) stationed at ZRP Hillside who were in a motorised patrol along Kabot Drive at Buena vista suburb yesterday arrested the two following a tip off from a member of the public,” said Chief Insp Simango. She said during the patrol, an informant informed the police that there were three men who were allegedly pulling something in the bush which the informant suspected were copper cables. Chief Insp Simango said following a tip off, the patrol team laid an ambush and managed to intercept the vehicle that the accused persons were using to ferry the copper cables after it developed a fault.  “Upon seeing the police, the three accused persons allegedly disembarked from the vehicle and fled from the scene leaving the vehicle. The patrol team gave chase and managed to apprehend two of the three accused persons while the other accused person escaped,” she said. Chief Insp Simango urged members of the public to desist from tampering with Zesa equipment, saying the act is detrimental to the effective supply of electricity to homes and industries. She urged members of the public to continue working with the police by giving them tip offs whenever they see any suspicious activities occurring in their residential areas especially after a power cut. Chief Insp Simango encouraged residents to join neighbourhood watch committees which are a community policing initiative to help members of the public safeguard their properties.-@michellzvanyanyan2