The Chronicle Maxwell Changombe In Zimbabwe, women are the main victims of gender-based violence (GBV). According to the Zimbabwe Demographic Health Survey for 2015, one in every four women in Zimbabwe has experienced sexual violence since the age of 15 and one in every three women between 15-49 have experienced physical violence. The statistics confirm that GBV is still a huge problem and there is a need to bring everyone on board and leave no one behind if we are to eradicate GBV. There is a need to meaningfully engage and involve young people in the fight against the vice. Zimbabwe joined the rest of the world in marking the Sixteen-Days of Activism against gender-based violence which came to an end on Tuesday. Action was at some 40kms from Harare central business district, in Hopley, Ushewokunze and Southlea Park peri-urban suburbs, where young Zimbabweans are leading efforts to end GBV prevalence in their communities. Under the Peak Youth Tackling HIV project funded by Comic Relief and Egmont Trust and implemented by Restless Development Zimbabwe, young Zimbabweans regularly conduct community dialogues, roadshows and sports tournaments which they use to create awareness on violence against women. Their movement is now a well-known effort among locals under the theme, “Run with the Cause, Stop GBV-Zero Tolerance to Sexual Harassment” targeting men and boys. Young people, through the project have conducted GBV transformational trainings which have reached over 100 men and boys.  The main aim of the trainings is to educate them about GBV issues and turn them into agents of positive change in the community. The training sessions capture aspects such as reasons why men batter women and they have received support from Zimbabwe Republic Police, Ministry of Women Affairs Gender, Small and Medium Enterprise Development. In their roadshows, young people have also helped create awareness on anti-sexual violence under the theme “Zero Tolerance to Sexual Harassment.” These activities have been most helpful because, most young people do not know what sexual harassment really means but having it broken down to them by fellow young people has helped bridge the knowledge gap. In trying to reach everyone, young leaders have also taken the activism to public spaces, such as bus parks where touts usually pass unwelcome comments, especially to young women and girls. Young Leaders have also created and trained Gender Action Committees (GACs) in communities with support from the Ministry of Women Affairs, Gender, Small and Medium Enterprises and the Zimbabwe Republic Police. The GAC is an idea that came from community engagement. The committees are responsible for tackling GBV issues in the community and educating the general community on GBV issues as well as the referral pathways. The law and policies are clear but the general community is not fully aware of the reporting processes and the committees are helping provide guidance in terms of reporting. In the communities, the committee members also act as focal persons to provide intervention in GBV incidents. These last 16 Days of Activism saw young leaders conduct home visits in their community educating young people and parents on GBV issues and calling for an end to rape and sexual harassment. They also engaged with parents urging them to educate their children, especially young boys to become responsible citizens who value and respect other citizens. Luckily, local district leaders are beginning to join and support the efforts of these young people. This is a vital step in enhancing the work of young people in combating gender-based violence and agencies like Restless Development are doing a commendable job. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals calls for “no one to be left behind” which explicitly calls for the engagement and involvement of young people in ending violence against women and girls. It is very crucial to support young people in their participation in ending GBV if we are to realiSe the 2030 Agenda. It is high time that all stakeholders joined hands to augment young people as active participants in ending GBV as evidenced by the Peak Youth Tackling HIV young leaders’ efforts to end GBV.