The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter POLICE in Bulawayo have appealed to residents and the business community who lost property during the opposition instigated violent demonstrations and looting in January to come forward and identify their property. The county’s major cities were in January affected by the violence unleashed by the opposition and its partners resulting in the looting and destruction of property. Bulawayo was the worst affected. Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango yesterday said while they arrested several culprits in connection with the violent protests, some victims have not claimed their recovered property. “We are therefore appealing to members of the public who lost their property during the January violent protests to come forward and help identify the recovered property. We have several gadgets in our possession that include commercial refrigerators, stoves, and microwaves, television sets, shovels, hoes among other things. The  recovered property is worth millions of dollars,” said Chief Insp Simango. She said the property is being kept at Drill Hall Police Station in the Licensing Inspectorate Division. Chief Insp Simango said failure to identify the property would result in the State auctioning it. “We know that some of the residents may not have the serial numbers but can have specific ways to identify their properties. They should come forward with those specific details which will enable them to identify the properties. ‘‘We don’t want chancers in this process. We also want to warn the public that falsely claiming property could result in culprits being arrested and charged. If people fail to identify their properties it will be auctioned. ‘‘We will however, monitor the response from the public before setting up the date to auction unclaimed goods. Those who want to claim their properties should visit our offices at Drill Hall during the business hours,” said Chief Insp Simango. She said the recovered property does not include groceries. – @nqotshili