The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter TOURISM authorities in the Kavango–Zambezi Transfrontier Conservation Area (Kaza-TFCA) are pushing for policy harmonisation in the region to facilitate ease of doing business in the sector. Kaza-TFCA was established in 2011 and is situated in the Kavango and Zambezi river basins where the borders of Angola, Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe meet, covering about 519,912 km². The bloc came up with a uni-visa model in an effort to ease the movement of visitors between member countries, especially those visiting the Victoria Falls area, so as to transform the region into a more competitive tourism destination by eliminating the need for tourists to obtain multiple visas. The tourism sector now feels the same privilege should be extended to vehicles that carry tourists. This follows concerns that some of the countries were restricting vehicles from their neighbours from crossing the border through imposing exorbitant charges. Zimbabwe Tourism Authority acting chief executive, Mr Givemore Chidzidzi, said tourism players have complained about an uneven playing field. “Tourism players have complained about an uneven playing field. I wouldn’t want to confine it to Zimbabwe and Botswana only but will look at it at Kaza level as affecting the five countries. This is a transfrontier conservation area where wildlife moves freely and we want tourists to move freely within that area as well,” said Mr Chidzidzi. He said respective countries’ regulations and policies need to be harmonised. “Botswana has certain requirements just like Zimbabwe has its own. When we talk of level playing field, we should understand that there are different regulations and services cost differently based on their economies and their currencies,” said Mr Chidzidzi. “Now we want among ourselves as tourism authorities to see how we can harmonise these so people can move freely. This is something on course and we are discussing. Recently Kaza chief executives met and soon I will be                                                                                                                                          meeting with our Botswana counterparts on a bilateral basis to discuss that so we can make it easy for our business people to cross the border.” He said in most cases policies affect the customer hence the need to ensure they move without hassles. “If we have put in the Kaza visa, what are we doing with the vehicles, are they enjoying the same privilege?” added Mr Chidzidzi. He said the meeting with his Botswana Tourism Organisation counterpart will be held before end of next month. Tourism executive Mr Gary Archer who is Wild Horizons chief executive said the bone of contention was on levies imposed on tourism cars that cross the border with tourists. “While Zimbabwean operators complain about tour operating vehicles being restricted from crossing into Botswana, Zambian authorities also have similar complaints about Zimbabwean tour vehicles crossing the northern neighbour’s border willy-nilly. — @ncubeleon.