The Chronicle Ngqwele Dube, Sports Correspondent THE Emakhandeni Tennis tournament is now ripe for inclusion on the national calendar following a successful hosting of this year’s edition that attracted over 180 players last week. Several stakeholders now feel the event should help revive the game in Bulawayo’s western suburbs to attract more players from these communities. Despite bearing the name Emakhandeni, the event was held at Girls College due to infrastructure challenges at the Emakhandeni Tennis Courts. Parents and coaches that watched the competition praised the smooth flow of the event and commended the organisers. Vonai Manzungu, who accompanied her son Muchengeti from Harare, said the level of organisation had improved and incorporating the tournament onto the national calendar would expose the players to more competitive tournaments. “They were quite well organised. I was also impressed with the turnout, meaning players had more games to play. The more high-profile tournaments there are, the better for the emerging players as this gives them more game time and I think it would be a noble idea if this tournament is put on the national calendar,” said Manzungu. Gwanda-based tennis coach Mtshutshisi Mathema said he was particularly impressed by the high level of competition, which some players had been relishing. “It was quite competitive, with lots of players from around the country and this gave our players stiffer competition than they are used to. This allowed them to take note of their weaknesses, which we are now working at the moment,” Mathema said. Jamia Masinda, whose daughter Natalie was among the winners in the Under-18 category, said there is need to improve the courts at Emakhandeni to make it have a different feel from other competitions. “There is huge potential for the event to turn national and attract a lot of new players if it is held at Emakhandeni, but they need to renovate the courts for the finals to be held there. They managed to organise the event well and with a huge turnout that we saw, I think we might have players from outside the country taking part next year. The tourney was well sponsored this year, with kids taking home several prizes,” said Masinda. Emakhandeni Tennis Club chairman Witness Jiyane said they were happy with the growth of the tournament. At Emakhandeni there are only two courts, which could not accommodate more than 180 players that took part in the event. Some of the players that walked away with prizes include Kudzai Chapepa, Natalie Masinda and Daisy Mwenga, who were victorious in the girls’ Under-18 section, while Hasley Masara, Zamani Moyo and Anesu Kwirirai took honours in the boys’ category of the same age group.