The Chronicle The biggest party of the year explodes across the country today as millions celebrate Christmas Day. It is a huge day that most of us have been waiting for over the past 12 months. Many will spend on parties, good food and clothes and presents as we celebrate this important day. As a matter of fact, this is a religious holiday on which Christians across the world celebrate the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because of this, for millions, today’s party begins with church services.  Scriptures to be read will typically be from the books of the New Testament that record Jesus’ birth. Sermons would centre on beginnings, new beginnings, birth, rebirth, renewal and the like. After the morning prayers, the party will begin. Bulawayo’s central business district was busy yesterday as thousands made last-minute purchases in readiness for the big day. Most roads in the city from morning to late afternoon became parking lots of sorts as vehicles moved slowly around.  Pavements, supermarkets, clothing outlets, gift shops, bars and other outlets were packed by excited people who were already in the Christmas mood. We observed yesterday and over the past few days that prices were generally stable and fair while stocking levels were good as well. This enabled our people to buy as much as they can to make today a really happy one for them and their families. Fuel supplies have been generally tight in recent months. As a result, motorists spent much time queueing for the commodity at various service stations. However, since the second week of this month supplies improved markedly. In Bulawayo for example, motorists only have to wait for a few minutes at fuel stations to be served. We agree that we are here today after a challenging year marked by price increases, erosion of incomes and shortages of some commodities. However, these challenges should not prevent us from celebrating Christ’s birth and just being merry. President Mnangagwa, in his traditional Christmas Day message yesterday, urged citizens to uphold the values that Christ teaches us — love, peace and unity. He expressed regret that some among us are facing challenges but said economic fundamentals to get the economy back on its feet are now in place. “During this time when we celebrate the life of Jesus Christ, let us internalise the values he left for us,” said the President. “The values of loving our neighbours, of protecting and caring for the poor, and of peace and unity. Since the beginning of the new dispensation, we have worked hard daily, guided by these values. Indeed, at all times we must be guided by Holy Scripture, by a desire and determination for justice, peace and prosperity for all. “This Christmas, let us look forward not backward; inwards not outwards. Let us focus on how best we can look after our families, our communities and our nation. How we can make Zimbabwe a better place for all. I know that many of you still suffer. I am not blind to your situation, nor am I deaf to your cries. “I commit to you that we will continue to reform with an eye on the long term; for we must not reform only for ourselves, but for our children and our children’s children. “We are undertaking deep, broad, and meaningful reforms. We have put the economic fundamentals in place. We have balanced the budget. We are engaging the world. We are continuing to open up the political and media spaces. We are clamping down on corruption. And we are building a new Zimbabwe where the people come first. Whilst we have much more work to do, my promise to you is that we will continue to work with modesty and humility, guided by our faith and scripture, day and night, to build a better future for all. I wish you all a peaceful and merry Christmas. God Bless you all and God Bless the nation of Zimbabwe.” While many are expected to spend big on their best dishes of the year, drink, clothing, parties we must not forget, as the President said, that Christmas Day is also a time for giving to the needy. There are thousands in our country who are in that situation — the orphans, elderly, the sick and disabled who cannot help themselves. Let those who can give the needy something to cheer them up this Christmas Day. If they do, they will certainly not do that in vain as the Proverbs 11:24-25 says: “Those who give generously receive more, but those who are stingy with what is appropriate will grow needy. Generous persons will prosper; those who refresh others will themselves be refreshed.” We have a word of caution to some among us who might get too excited today to spend beyond their means. New Year’s Day is just seven days from today. Schools will open two weeks later. Children’s school fees will have to be paid. Uniforms and books will have to be bought. Therefore, we urge everyone to be judicious in their spending. We wish everyone a truly festive and blessed Christmas Day!