The Chronicle Michell Zvanyanya, Chronicle Reporter THE Environmental Management Agency (EMA) has called on members of the public to implement eco-friendly practices during the festive season to promote a clean and a healthy environment. In a statement yesterday, EMA national spokesperson Ms Amkela Sidange urged the public to adopt best waste management practices during gatherings that normally generate a lot of refuse. “As the festive season is now upon us EMA would like to implore the general public to be mindful of the environment this festive season by incorporating eco- friendly practices that will add a green sparkle to the festivities through promoting a clean, safe and healthy environment,” she said. “The festive season comes with a lot of partying and gatherings which generate a lot of waste. The public is encouraged to always adopt best waste management practices during such gatherings to ensure the environment is left clean. This includes adopting a culture of waste separation and recovery such that biodegradables can be composted.” Ms Sidange discouraged those travelling during the festive season from throwing litter from vehicles and dumping waste at undesignated areas, a practice that is a punishable offence as provided by section 83 of the Environmental Management Act. “This is the period during which people travel to different places to celebrate Christmas and New Year, with friends and families. The travelling public is encouraged to place litter in a refuse bin provided in the vehicle and desist from throwing litter out of vehicles. Vehicle bins should always be emptied at designated areas and not anywhere along the highway. Let us all be responsible travellers by keeping our Zimbabwe clean and avoid prosecution,” she said. Ms Sidange said most motorists have developed a tendency of carrying large amounts of fuel in their vehicles owing to fuel shortages in the country. She said this has given rise to fatal accidents where victims are burnt beyond recognition due to hazardous substances transported in the vehicles. Ms Sidange urged motorists to desist from carrying hazardous substances such as fuel in the same vehicles they will be travelling in as this is a public and environmental concern. “According to Statutory Instrument 268 of 2018, no person shall manufacture, store, sell, use, import, export, transport, or distribute any hazardous substance in a manner which access thereto would present a direct hazard to the public and the environment. Hazardous substances such as fuel should therefore be transported, stored and sold under a licence from the Agency,” she said. — @michellzvanyanyan2