The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League champions FC Platinum will cut short their celebrations for a third consecutive title with players set to resume training on Thursday to prepare for the Caf Champions League. The platinum miners were crowned champions at the National Sports Stadium on Saturday after pipping Caps United to the title. Perfect Chikwende scored the solitary goal in the title decider to seal an agonising campaign for Caps, who at one time appeared to have wrapped it up. FC Platinum will face continental giants Al Ahly of Egypt on December 28 in Cairo. The Zvishavane side finished with 62 points, four above Chicken Inn and five more than Caps United, who needed an outright win to claim the championship. FC Platinum spokesperson Chido Chizondo said they had temporarily broken camp to give players time to rest. “This has been a hectic season for FC Platinum and the players really did a magnificent job to fight for the championship, while competing in the Caf Champions League. The club decided to give players sometime to recover from a tight schedule and we’ll resume training on Thursday,” said Chizondo. FC Platinum have lost two Caf Champions League group games, 2-1 away to Al Hilal Omdurman Sudan and 3-0 at home to Tunisian giants Etoile du Sahel. They now have a mountain to climb and can only revive their campaign by springing a shocker against the Egyptians. With focus turned to the Caf Champions League following conclusion of the local league, FC Platinum are expected to improve in their continental safari. They have experienced players in their squad capable of rising to the occasion. Coach Lizwe Sweswe, whose stock has risen after guiding FC Platinum to their third consecutive league title as well as the Caf Champions League group stage, is expected to craft the platinum miners’ revival in the continental games. Players that drove FC Platinum to domestic success include goalkeepers Petros Mhari, Francis Tizayi and Wallace Magalane, whom coaches have been rotating. Seasoned defender Gift Bello, national team central defender Lawrence Mhlanga and utility player William Stima have been resolute at the back, with the central midfield quartet of Devon Chafa, Kelvin Madzongwe, Never Tigere and Rainsome Pavari keeping their shape and scoring important goals. In attack they have Rodwell Chinyengetere, wingers Rahman Kutsanzira and Gift Mbweti, as well as Albert Eonde. Mkhokheli Dube and Charles Sibanda have also made cameo appearances for the platinum miners. – @ZililoR