The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls
PRIVATE sector executives have been urged to play a leading role in the fight against corruption.
They have also been called upon to second names of competent persons in the business sector to be part of the anti-corruption body. Addressing chief executives from the private sector at the 6th CEO Africa Round Table here last week, Speaker of Parliament Advocate Jacob Mudenda said the anti corruption commission will be more effective with business executives as members. “You should forward names of capable people from your sector to be considered for appointment as commissioners on the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC) if you want a strong anti-corruption unit. “As CEOs you have to play your part in fighting corruption,” said Adv Mudenda. He said in coming up with the names to be considered for appointment as commissioners, CEOs should be gender sensitive. Adv Mudenda said Parliament will compile a final list of 12 candidates to be submitted to President Mnangagwa. “If we don’t see names from the business sector don’t blame the President because he will select from those given to him,” he said. The call comes at a time when Parliament of Zimbabwe has started scouting for individuals who will serve as commissioners on ZACC. The Parliament’s Standing Rules and Orders Committee has already advertised calling on the public to nominate persons to be considered for appointment by President Mnangagwa. “The Standing Rules and Orders Committee of the Parliament of Zimbabwe is mandated in terms of Section 237 and 254 of the Constitution to nominate candidates for appointment by His Excellency to serve as commissioners on the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission provided for in Chapter 13 Part 1 of the Constitution,” read part of the advert. The vacancies arose following the resignation of ZACC chairman Dr Job Whabira and the rest of the commissioners who comprised Dr Nanette Silukhuni, who was the deputy chairperson, Mr Goodson Nguni, Mrs Christine Fundira, Mr Denford Chirindo, Ms Cathy Muchechetere, Ms Farai Mashonganyika and Mr Boyana Ndou on January 31. Adv Mudenda said the country was committed to fighting corruption as part of measures to resuscitate the economy as evidenced by the setting up of specialised courts to deal with corruption cases. The ZACC commissioners who resigned last month were appointed by former President Robert Mugabe in February 2016 in line with the country’s Constitution. Their three-year tenure saw several high-profile people being arrested but members of the public have expresed concern at the delay in concluding most of the cases. President Mnangagwa is on record as saying corruption is one of the main impediments to the country’s economic growth and has declared zero tolerance to graft. — @ncubeleon.