The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
THE UN humanitarian chief, Mr Mark Lowcock, is set to visit Zimbabwe today to launch an appeal for funds to assist Zimbabweans in need of food aid due to the drought. In an interview, the UN Resident Co-ordinator’s office spokesperson Mr Sirak Gebrehiwot said in its thrust to complement Government’s efforts to bridge the food deficit, the world body will launch the 2019 Zimbabwe Flash Appeal to raise funds to assist families who need food aid. “The United Nations notes with concern the prevailing socio-economic challenges faced by ordinary Zimbabweans and the dire food security outlook prompted by the El Niño weather phenomenon. “The Zimbabwe Flash Appeal is a stepping stone as we continue to monitor the situation in the country closely and remain fully engaged with Government and other partners to find lasting solutions,” he said
He said during his visit, Mr Lowcock will launch the call for funding and meet senior Government officials, the diplomatic community, humanitarian organisations and members of civil society to deliberate on the way forward in assisting Zimbabweans. “This will be his first visit to Southern Africa and he targets Zimbabwe where urgent assistance is needed,” he said. “Zimbabwe is going through economic hardships doubled by the drought which has seen many families struggling to put food on the table. “This urgent visit by Mr Mark Lowcock is meant to bring relevant stakeholders together and plan on how to gather funds to assist the nation,” he said. Mr Gebrehiwot said Mr Lowcock is also expected to meet people in Epworth and Mudzi district, whom he said have been affected the most by increasing food insecurity. He said during the launch of this appeal, donors will announce their contribution to the humanitarian operation in Zimbabwe. “It is our core mission to strengthen the resilience of the most vulnerable communities to mitigate against the impact of the deteriorating economic situation,” he said. —@tanmary98