The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
DEFENDING Castle Lager Premier Soccer League champions FC Platinum are among four top-flight clubs that will be punished for failing to meet the league’s player registration deadline. Air Force of Zimbabwe side Chapungu, whose coach Rodwell Dhlakama has reportedly been shuttling between Gweru and Eswatini where he is on attachment, 2015 champions Chicken Inn, who left the country for a pre-season camp in Malawi on Tuesday and ambitious Harare City are the sides that failed to meet the February 22 deadline. The quartet was beaten to the registration deadline by newly promoted clubs TelOne FC of Gweru, Mutare’s Manica Diamonds, Mushowani Stars from Bindura and PSL returnees Hwange. “Four Premier Soccer League clubs did not meet the player registration deadline of 22 February 2019. These are Chapungu, Chicken Inn, FC Platinum and Harare City. The clubs are required to register 25 senior players and five junior players born on or after January 1, 2000 in preparation for the 2019 season. “Clubs that fail to fulfil the registration requirements on time will be sanctioned in terms of the PSL Rules and Regulations,” said PSL communications and media liaison officer, Kudzai Bare in a statement yesterday. It came as a surprise that FC Platinum are yet to finalise their provisional squad despite having an early start to 2019 because of their involvement in the Total Caf Champions League where they are in the group stages. FC Platinum added, among other players for the continental competition, midfielders Rainsome Pavari from Bulawayo City and Perfect Chikwende from Bulawayo Chiefs as well as striker Lameck Nhamo. The Zvishavane side lost chief striker Rodwell Chinyengetere to South African Premier League side Baroka. It is surprising that Chicken Inn failed to submit their registration forms with the PSL when they were almost done with their additions. The Gamecocks completed the signing of nine players, the trio of goalkeeper Donovan Bernard, defensive midfielder Tinashe Chipunza and striker Clive Augusto from Ngezi Platinum Stars, winger Malvin Gaki, the former Dynamos trio of right-back Phakamani Dube and attackers Valentine Kadonzvo and Panashe Mutasa, central midfielder Sipho Ndlovu, who joined from Bulawayo City as well as Bret Amidu from FC Platinum. According to the PSL, the clubs should have submitted their players’ lists on their books even if they don’t have the required numbers as yet. The clubs are allowed to add or withdraw players to the lists they would have submitted before the March 31 transfer window shuts. The PSL wants clubs to submit their registration papers early so that they have enough time for a meticulous verification to avoid player wrangles among other issues. For the 2019 season, the PSL says it has put in place measures to curb age cheating, which has been rampant in the local game. For the five junior players born on or after January 1, 2000, the PSL is demanding birth certificates and educational history in addition to signed contracts, unconditional clearance letters, certified copies of national identity cards and signed medical examination forms. — @ZililoR