The Chronicle Michelle Gwizi/ Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporters
A 40-year-old man has been jailed for a year for killing a warthog and an impala in Fort Rixon while three others have been arrested for allegedly killing a lion in Tsholotsho. In the first case involving the killing of a warthog and an impala, Richard Sibanda appeared before Bulawayo magistrate, Mr Tinashe Tashaya. “You are sentenced to 12 months in prison, three months suspended on condition that you do not commit any similar offence in the next five years, three months suspended on restitution and six months suspended on that you serve 350 hours of community service,” said the magistrate. Sibanda pleaded guilty to contravening section 59 (2) (A) of the Parks and Wildlife Control Act chapter 20:14. Mr Mufaro Mageza, for the State said on February 9 at around 10PM a team of four scouts was on night duty patrol at White Kopjes section, Debshan Shangani Ranches, Fort Rixon. He said the four game scouts saw torch lights. “Sibanda and his accomplices were hunting. The team tried tracking the hunter’s footprints until they saw Sibanda,” said Mr Mageza. Sibanda then started running away from the scouts and he dropped carcasses of an impala and a warthog, the court heard. The scouts chased after him and apprehended him, but his accomplices escaped. The slaughtered animals were valued at $2 000. Meanwhile, three men were on Tuesday arrested in Tsholotsho for allegedly killing a lion. The suspects: Qaphelani Mahlangu (49), Norman Ncube (51) and Alpha Moyo (50) snared and killed the lion. ZimParks spokesperson, Mr Tinashe Farawo, yesterday confirmed the incident. He said the suspects said they killed the lion because it had killed their cattle. “I can confirm we received a report of poaching by three elderly men who said the act was a retaliatory measure as they had lost their cattle to the lion. “They were, however, arrested and are being charged with poaching. They are set to appear in court,” said Mr Farawo. — @gwizi_n/ -@winnie_masara