The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter BULAWAYO Central district yesterday kicked off its inter-schools track and field competitions at Milton High School. Nine schools, Townsend High, Bulawayo Adventist, Hamilton, Eveline, Gifford, Montrose, Hamilton, King George and hosts Milton converged at the school for an event that will culminate in the selection of a district team for the inter-district championships likely to be held in March. The event will resume this morning and competition should be stiff, as only 50 athletes will be selected for Bulawayo Central to compete against Imbizo, Khami, Mzilikazi and Reigate in the inter-district tournament. Bulawayo Central district convener Millicent Moyo said the inter-schools event was going on smoothly and applauded the organising team for convening it in a short space of time. “Ecosure has provided us with a tent and ZB Bank also came to grace our occasion and we’re hopeful that they will partner us going forward. We want to ensure that the competitions end well and most of all we hope the learners enjoy themselves in a competitive manner,” said Moyo. Moyo, who is also the Townsend High School headmistress, also thanked Century Ambulance Service for providing an ambulance and first aid crew. Bulawayo Central district sports director Edmore Shumba said they agreed to hold the competitions in spite of the schools not having enough time to train. “From what I have witnessed so far, we are having a competitive event and it promises to be more interesting tomorrow. We are having a good competition that will help us select a team that can scoop medals in the inter-districts competition,” said Shumba. “We worked tirelessly within a short space of time. The pupils didn’t train much, but we did not want to disadvantage ourselves because it is likely that the provincial competitions will go on as planned,” he said. He said they always emphasise to learners that sports is part of everyday life and is important part in the new curriculum. “We encourage pupils to balance academics and sports because it will benefit them in the long run. “The curriculum wants to do away with the misconception that there is a subject that is better than the other because it is inspiring to have a student with good grades as well as a reputable sports track record,” Shumba said. — @DecoDecent2