The Chronicle Twitter
Responses to “Local vehicles for ministers, MPs” Great move. Eventually ban the imports of second-hand grey imports, because the cost of maintaining those vehicles, and eventually their waste will be enormous. — @Chalsechakanya. Keeping on importing vehicles means the country will have to source more foreign currency. Promoting our own car assembly plants will create employment, and reduce foreign currency expenditure for the Government. — @Dalubuhlenkosana. Facebook
Responses to “Return to work: Zimta, PTUZ urge members” A high level of maturity from the teachers’ associations. The only way to solve challenges facing teachers is dialogue. — Tadiwa Moyo. Zimbabwe is facing economic hardships and teachers must behave like learned people. They must accept that the “little” they may be getting will be increased as they go. Let’s give the Government time to breathe. — Tinoda M. Responses to “Parly committee faces probe over $400k bribe”
Mliswa is known for castigating top Government officials, who are corrupt, so if proven guilty he should face justice. – Dalubuhle Nkosana.
***
May heads and bodies roll! Bravo to legislators who expose and speak against wrongdoing by anyone regardless of who they are! – Tambai Chinemavende. Website
Responses to “Court confirms Chiyangwa win”
What is wrong with stockpiling grain in classrooms? What is wrong with inviting hunger-stricken Zimbabweans reeling from MDC-invited sanctions to help themselves to a bag or two on their way to the polling booth to later take home and feed the children? What is wrong with buying people soft-drinks to quench their throats from the MDC-induced heat from the sun that they drew closer to earth with the help of the enemy so that our people suffer from heat exhaustion and dehydration? Why didn’t he, Mr Nkosilathi Alloys Nyamadzawo, do it himself since his party’s president Nelson Chamisa said Trump had promised him $15 billion to spend, and could have got a few bob from that kitty and outdone Dr Philip Chiyangwa in doing all that he alleges? — Truthhurts.