The Chronicle Sports Reporter
AFTER postponing the Annual National Sport Awards last year, the Sports Commission are now set to host the ceremony in Harare next month. The awards were originally scheduled for December 18, 2018. But were moved to this year due to a number of reasons, among them the prevailing economic conditions and the need to rebrand the awards. They are now set to take place on March 1 after the unveiling of the finalists which is scheduled for this Friday in Harare. Sports Commission corporate communications officer, Tirivashe Nheweyembwa confirmed the new dates for the annual awards. “The Annual National Sport Awards (ANSA) unveiling of the finalists will be held on 15 February, 2019, in Harare. This will precede the hosting of the Annual National Sport Awards which are set for 1 March, 2019, in Harare. “The unveiling of the finalists follows a rigorous process of selecting the athletes and officials who represented the country in various sporting competitions with distinction by a panel of adjudicators,” said Nheweyembwa. Nheweyembwa said although the Government through the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation and Delta Corporation have confirmed their support the door is still open for more sponsors to come on board. “Above and beyond, the unveiling of the nominees, we are happy to announce that the Government through the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation and Delta Corporation have confirmed their support towards this premier event though we are still in the market looking for more sponsors to add up to what we have so far. “Our desire is to have the nominees being richly rewarded for their efforts and this can only happen if we have more partners supporting this national premier event. “It is therefore our clarion call to the business community to join hands with us so that we can host memorable awards, which will meet the expectations of all the stakeholders and partners thus creating a lasting relationship for the benefit of sport,” Nheweyembwa said. The awards which are hosted every year are meant to celebrate and reward outstanding achievements by athletes and officials. Muripo is the reigning Sportsperson of the Year after winning the award for the second time in 2017. Other previous winners include Charles Manyuchi, Brendon de Jonge, Elliot Mujaji, Cara Black and the current Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Kirsty Coventry. 