The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter
TWO people died on the spot while 18 others were injured after a Bulawayo-bound Botswana-registered bus veered off the road and ran over pedestrians in Marula, near Plumtree. Matabeleland South police spokesperson Chief Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the incident which occurred at the 70 km peg along the Bulawayo- Plumtree road on Friday. “I can confirm that two people were killed on the spot after they were run over by a Bulawayo-bound bus on 8 February 2019 at around 10 PM. Several were injured and were rushed to hospital,” said Chief Inspector Ndebele. He urged motorists to exercise caution to curb road carnage. “Human error continues to be a reason for most road accidents. Motorists are advised to exercise caution on the road to save lives and pedestrians must also be on the alert all the time. The rainy season is upon us and roads tend to be slippery when wet so extreme caution must be exercised when travelling, especially at night,” said Chief Inspector Ndebele. Witnesses said the Leighwoods bus was travelling towards the city coming from Gaborone, Botswana when a haulage truck allegedly encroached onto its lane. The bus driver swerved to the left to avoid a head-on collision, leading to the accident. “People started screaming in the bus when a haulage truck came fast approaching and the bus driver swerved extremely to the left. Some people who were at the road side were run over and died on the spot,’ said a witness who identified himself as Mr Alfonse Siyanzou. The bus rammed into trees on the road side before stopping in a thicket. According to Mr Siyanzou, about 18 people were injured in the bus. Sources said Plumtree Department of Fire and Ambulances attended the scene. The injured were rushed to Plumtree District Hospital. On Thursday one person died while 15 others escaped with injuries after a commuter omnibus they were travelling in veered off the road and overturned along Plumtree Road in Belmont. —@andile_tshuma