The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter
Audius Mtawarira, the Guruve-born songwriter and music producer who is based in Australia, has said the future of Zimbabwe RnB music is in safe hands with the emerging artistes in the genre. In an interview yesterday, Audius who is remembered by many for his yesteryear hits such as Amai, If Only You Knew and Muchandiona, said he was pleased with the RnB music that was being produced in Zimbabwe. “The RnB urban scene in Zimbabwe is looking good. There’re several new voices such as Tammy, ShaSah, Shashl, Adrian Tate and Bryan K that are surely keeping the genre alive and putting it on the map,” Audius said. “These are just a few of many talented urban artistes who I believe equal anyone on the planet in potential. As I’ve always said, the problem has never been a shortage of talent but the procurement and refinement process. Production houses lack resources to enable them to produce quality music that meets international standards, ” he said. Mtawarira said the industry cannot thrive musically if the quality of music produced locally does not match international standards. “Like any other industry, we need to produce competitive brands that meet international standards,” he said. Mtawarira said emerging artistes should learn from the likes of the late legendary musician Oliver Mtukudzi whose death he said, inspired him to finish writing a song — Tofara Sei — he had penned for his late father who succumbed to diabetes in 2012. “I started writing the song when my father passed away several years ago and couldn’t finish it. When Tuku passed away, I was motivated to complete it,” Audius said. The musician who produces music for artistes in Australia, is married and has two children. He described himself as a family man who never misses an opportunity to travel back home. “I’m always in Zimbabwe because I don’t want to stay long without coming here,” said Audius who last visited in December. On his plans for 2019, he said: “I’ll be releasing several songs this year that will make up an album. Musically, I’ve been in experimentation mode as I’ve been making albums that vary in style. “This year will be no different. I’m aware that there’s an expected style from me, but if I don’t explore my creativity, I fear my enthusiasm for the art may diminish.” Audius became a household name in 2002 with the release of his debut album, Audius, which had the If Only You Knew hit. The musician is one of the greatest RnB (urban grooves) singers and songwriters to come out of Zimbabwe. He has composed songs for international musicians like Flo Rida, Ludacris and Australia songstress Delta Goodrem.