The Chronicle Harare Bureau MDC Alliance leader, Mr Nelson Chamisa and the privately-owned, opposition-leaning newspaper Newsday, peddled fake information about the death of Tinashe Kaitano, of Kadoma, in the recent anti-Zimbabwe propaganda campaign, our Harare Bureau can confirm. The private media and NGOs recently contrived to peddle a false narrative against Zimbabwe alleging State brutality and systematic rape against women. The campaign was meant to tarnish the image of the country ahead of important international meetings at the African Union and European Union leading to the punishment of Zimbabwe. And in a confirmation of the anti-Zimbabwe ploy, Kaitano, who had been falsely reported as one of the victims of alleged violence by security services,  appeared in court in Kadoma facing charges of burning a Zanu-PF office during last month’s violent protests. Mr Chamisa together with other members of the party’s Standing committee, addressed a Press conference at Harvest House and named Kaitano among 12 names he claimed had been killed by State security agencies. “It has been difficult to collate figures and specific names due to circumstances of emergency in the country where more than 12 people have reportedly been killed in the past one-and-half weeks,” said Mr Chamisa. On Monday, Newsday made the same allegations in a story titled “Army killings:ED demands evidence,” where it repeated the same narrative. It cited Amnesty International and the Zimbabwe Human Rights NGO Forum. “Despite the rebuttal by (President) Mnangagwa, respected human rights group Amnesty International (AI) on Sunday released a hard-hitting report containing names of victims of the State-sponsored fatal shootings, names of their relatives and physical addresses. The report titled Open for Business, Closed Dissent states that those shot, killed and injured were taken to government hospitals,” said Newsday. Yesterday, the paper was left red-faced after a report by our Harare Bureau exposed the grand lie.