The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
A TUKU Peace Memorial concert has been organised for the late music icon next Saturday at the Glamis Arena in Harare. The concert is meant to honour Oliver “Tuku” Mtukudzi and celebrate his life as a unifier and peacemaker. The national hero died on January 23 this year after a long battle with diabetes and was buried at his rural home in Madziwa on January 27. Organised by the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, National Arts Council of Zimbabwe, artistes, corporate world and Tuku’s family, the free concert is expected to kick off at 10AM. Speaking ahead of the event, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Thokozile Chitepo, said: “The concert is our nation’s befitting honour and tribute being paid to the selfless life of Dr Oliver Dairai “Tuku” Mtukudzi, our Pan-Africanist, our cultural hero and national icon, our unifier and peace-maker par excellence.” Chitepo added that Oliver Mtukudzi’s life embodied ubuntu which he spread through music. “Through his music and modesty, the late Dr Oliver Dairai ‘Tuku’ Mtukudzi embodied Zimbabwean values of Unhu/Ubuntu. His vision for peace, which he spread through his music and dance, transcends the boundaries of gender, generations and nations; it knows neither colour nor creed. “He championed, exuded, lived and left us a culture of peace,” she said. According to Chitepo, local and international artistes who collaborated with Tuku are billed to perform at the concert. Some of the artistes Tuku worked with include Ringo Madlingozi, Berita Khumalo, Winky D, Gary Tight, Steve Dyer and Louis Mhlanga. Chitepo encouraged Zimbabweans to come in their numbers to help celebrate the life of Tuku. “Let us come in our numbers as family and friends from the four corners of our nation and beyond to honour and celebrate the life and legacy that Dr Oliver Dairai ‘Tuku’ Mtukudzi left us.” There have been a number of memorial concerts that have been staged for the music icon with the most recent being in Johannesburg, South Africa on Tuesday.