The Chronicle Innocent Ruwende, Harare Bureau
United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Co-ordinator Mr Mark Lowcock arrived in the country yesterday afternoon to assess the humanitarian situation and lead resource mobilisation efforts from the international community. He was welcomed at the Harare International Airport by the head of the UN System in Zimbabwe Mr Bishow Parajuli, Government and UN officials. Mr Lowcock said he was pleased to be in Zimbabwe after also visiting Malawi and expressed concern over erratic rainfall which would affect the vulnerable. UN communications specialist Mr Sirak Gebrehiwot said Mr Lowcock will be in the country until Friday. Mr Lowcock is expected to meet senior Government officials, the diplomatic community, humanitarian organisations and members of the civil society. “He is also expected to meet people in Epworth and Mudzi district, who have been affected the most by increasing food insecurity,” said Mr Gebrehiwot. He said Mr Lowcock will also launch the Zimbabwe Flash Appeal today. “Mr Lowcock, with the UN Resident Co-ordinator Mr Bishow Parajuli, on behalf of the Humanitarian Country Team, will also launch the 2019 Zimbabwe Flash Appeal on Thursday in Harare, he said. “At the launch, Lowcock will host a press conference, with final remarks about the mission and donors will also announce contributions to the humanitarian operation in Zimbabwe.” The Flash Appeal calls on the international community to further contribute to the aid organisations’ efforts to save lives in response to Zimbabwe’s economic challenges and deteriorating humanitarian situations. Mr Lowcock, of the United Kingdom, was appointed as the UN Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, and head of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in September 2017. With more than 30 years of humanitarian and development experience, Mr Lowcock serves as the chief coordinator of the world’s humanitarian response in times of urgent crisis.