The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS and Chicken Inn will battle it out in the revised 2019 ZNA Charity Shield Cup, which has seen organisers changing the competition’s format from a four-team competition to a two-team event. Organisers of the tournament have set March 10 as the provisional date for the clash between the two sides, which met in last year’s semi-finals, which Bosso won 2-1. The army is targeting to raise $20 000 from the Highlanders and Chicken Inn clash. Proceeds from the tournament will be channelled towards the five ZNA charities, the Tsanga Lodge Convalescent Centre in Nyanga for the rehabilitation of injured soldiers; the Benevolence Fund for the welfare of troops on internal, external and international operations, ZNA Schools Welfare Trust, which has a total of 12 primary and five secondary schools, as well as the Widows and Orphans’ Fund that takes care of widows of soldiers before they receive terminal benefits. The March 10 date suits Bosso well, as they are in their pre-season and are in no rush to start playing competitive matches as they want their players to gradually develop their muscles while preparing for a tough Premiership season, which kicks off on March 30. It is highly likely that the ZNA Charity Shield will be Highlanders’ first competitive match of the year in Bulawayo, having played a training game last weekend in Chiredzi where they beat Eastern Region Division One side Green Fuel 2-1. The ZNA Charity Shield challenge match is likely to draw a big crowd, with Highlanders’ followers expected to come in their numbers to see the composition of their 2019 squad. By the time Bosso and Chicken Inn clash, the latter would have returned from a pre-season tournament in Malawi. Army charities secretary Lieutenant-Colonel Fabion Chitungo said they are in the process of engaging the teams and would officially launch the tournament “soon”. “We’ve agreed to have a once-off challenge match that will feature Highlanders and Chicken Inn as opposed to having a four-team tournament. After consultations, we found it economically viable to have the challenge match between two teams in Bulawayo and now we are in the process of engaging Highlanders and Chicken Inn before having an official launch soon. It is at the official launch where we will announce the gate charges and prizes for the participating teams,” said Chitungo. Last year, gate charges were set at $3 for the rest of the ground and $5 for the VIP wings. Dynamos, who beat Highlanders in last year’s final, got $15 000, with Bosso walking away $10 000 richer. – @ZililoR.