The Chronicle Victoria Falls Reporter
THE country’s tourism sector continues to experience good fortunes with a new up-market $8,5 million solar powered safari camp being opened in Victoria Falls. Mpala Jena Camp is the brainchild of Great Plains Conservation owners Mr Derek Joubert and his wife, Berverly, together with Mr Blessing Munyenyiwa of Love for Africa. Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira officially opened the 12-suite camp last week. She said the country is experiencing goodwill and renewed interest since the coming in of the Second Republic and its mantra: “Zimbabwe is open for business.” “We have gathered here to witness another big investment in the tourism sector. The property has the largest solar farm in Zimbabwe, which is very much welcome in terms of responsible tourism. Government is committed to support the tourism sector to unlock its full potential under the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP) and with this new development, we expect more tourists into our country,” said Minister Mupfumira. She said infrastructure and product development was evidence that Zimbabwe was committed to becoming the the tourist hub in Southern Africa. “This development is of great importance to the sector and the nation at large as the tourism sector continues to experience growth and deepening diversification. The sector is in fact one of the fastest growing economic sectors contributing significantly to the socio-economic development,” she said. Mr Joubert, who is the chief executive of Mpala Jena, said they will continue to invest in Zimbabwe to support the Zimbabwe is open for business mantra. The camp is solar-powered with a solar power capacity of 146KW, which will also be fed into the national grid. A total of $500 000 was invested into the solar project while Great Plains Conservation has invested a total of $12 million in Zimbabwe. Construction of Mpala Jena, which means an albino impala, was completed in December last year. It will accommodate mostly hunters at $1 000 per night. The tourism sector recorded a seven percent growth in foreign tourism receipts between 2017 and 2018.
Occupancies for January this year were 22 percent up making it the second best in 25 years. Last year Victoria Falls witnessed opening of 18 new facilities among them Zambezi Island Lodge, The River Brewery, Old Drift Lodge, Great Plains Lodge and Nguni Boutique Lodge