The Chronicle Harare Bureau
Government is expecting delivery of 200 imported buses to boost the Zimbabwe United Passenger Company (Zupco) fleet, as it steps up efforts to modernise the urban mass transport system. In an interview with Zimpapers’ Capitalk 100.4 FM, Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister July Moyo confirmed the impending arrival of the buses, saying it is part of an initiative rolled out early this year to subsidise urban transportation. He said the consignment was purchased through funding secured by President Emmerson Mnangagwa. “Every local authority is supposed to run an omnibus system and we are working very hard to ensure that,” said Minister Moyo. “The President has already secured some financing which we will use to purchase more buses. “We are expecting the first consignment of 200 buses to be delivered so that we can continue to modernise our urban transport system.” Minister Moyo said although priority was being given to urban dwellers, there were plans to eventually expand the transport system to rural areas. Meanwhile, Minister Moyo said Zupco has increased its fleet of buses deployed in Harare from 145 to 164. Zupco is co-ordinating the new transport system initiated by Government as part of long-term interventions to modernise the mass public transport system in Zimbabwe. “We are pleased that Zupco over the days has been operating and increased its bus capacity from 93 to 145 and as of today (yesterday), 164 buses have been deployed in Harare,” he said. “The committee that has been set up which involves other stakeholders has been monitoring all Zupco operations together with Zupco management and staff and is satisfied that all routes have been serviced well.” Minister Moyo said all buses in Harare refuel between 10am and 2pm. “During the fuelling times, some of the routes are not being plied and if there are noticeable disturbances during that time please report to Zupco on the following numbers: 08644700000-9,” said Minister Moyo. “Travellers will have noticed that on Monday 25 February and today Tuesday 26 February 2019 other transport players such as commuter omnibus operators were not visible during some peak hours and that might have put pressure on Zupco operations, but we are pleased to announce that Zupco is operating well. “In all other towns, the operations are going on well and we rely on public feedback and local authority personnel to keep monitoring the operations. In the meanwhile, as has been announced earlier, His Excellency the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe has negotiated for more buses that will be able to service both urban and rural areas.” The Zupco buses are charging $1 per trip to the city centre from most suburbs, while commuters from Chitungwiza and Norton are parting with $1,50 and $2 per trip, respectively.