The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
ZIFA Southern Region has postponed its annual general meeting that had been scheduled for tomorrow, citing “pressing issues” beyond their control. The AGM is now set for March 2. The postponement of the AGM gives clubs that have been struggling to raise affiliation fees another week to make their commitment, as Zifa Southern Region had indicated that clubs that won’t have affiliated by the time of the AGM would not be allowed to participate. In a statement addressed to club secretaries and dated February 18, Zifa Southern Region administrator Augustine Ndlovu wrote: “On behalf of Southern Region Soccer League executive, I would like to advise all club secretaries that our annual general meeting, which was scheduled for 23 February 2019, has been postponed to 2 March 2019 due to other pressing issues beyond our control. We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience caused.” Chronicle Sport has been informed that the “pressing issues beyond our control” is actually the absence of Zifa Southern Region chairman Andrew Tapela, who is part of Zifa president Felton Kamambo’s entourage that is in South Africa for a capacity-building and benchmarking interactive workshop at the South African Football Association. Kamambo’s delegation in South Africa consists of the four Zifa regional chairpersons, Davison Muchena (Eastern Region), Stanley Chapeta (Central Region), Willard Manyengavana (Northern Region) and Tapela. Zifa Northern Region board member Sweeney Mushonga, who is heavily tipped to take over from Joseph Mamutse as Zifa chief executive officer, is also in South Africa for the workshop. Zifa technical director Wilson Mutekede, national board members Bryton Malandule, Barbara Chikosi, Chamu Chiwanza, Farai Jere and Sugar Chagonda are also in attendance. Philemon Machana, the Zifa board member for finance, Mamutse and suspended vice-president Gift Banda didn’t make the trip. Only five Southern Region clubs clubs, ZPC Hwange, Bulawayo City, Casmyn, Talen Vision and Makomo have paid their affiliation fees, with the rest expected to do so today. Affiliation fees for newly promoted clubs are pegged at $2 500, while old teams pay $2 000. These fees exclude players and technical team members’ registration. The registration for each player is $20, which translates to $500 for a squad of 25 players and $250 for a five-member technical team. The four newly-promoted teams hoping to make a mark in the First Division are Ajax Hotspurs and Arenel from Bulawayo as well as Nengasha Stars and Binga Pirates from Matabeleland North. The other clubs expected to be part of the league are Tsholotsho, armysides Indlovu Iyanyathela and Moto Moto, CIWU, Bosso 90, Casmyn, Mosi Rovers and Mainline FC of Plumtree. Toronto’s participation hangs in the balance as the club is hunting for a sponsor, while Zim Leopards withdrew from the league last month and are waiting for admission into the Zifa Bulawayo Metropolitan Province Division Two Soccer League. — @ZililoR