The Chronicle Walter Mswazie recently in Chivi
GOVERNMENT has identified 14 areas of investment to be exploited at the Tugwi-Mukosi Dam in Masvingo province with a detailed framework of how the projects would be implemented having already been done, a senior Government official has said. Speaking on the sidelines of the tour of the dam last week, Deputy Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet, Mr Justin Mupamhanga, said the giant water body provides a number of investment opportunities, which will be implemented soon. “Government has always been seized with the importance of Tugwi-Mukosi Dam as a national asset that brings relief for the people of Masvingo, particularly for the people of Chivi and Masvingo District,” said Mr Mupamhanga. “It is important to note this national project has a variety of projects. In 2017 Government approved a framework for projects, 14 of them that we have come to make sure they are implemented.” He said the identified projects enshrined in the framework comprised irrigation, tourism, education, boat cruise, energy, among others. In order to ensure that the projects are implemented, Mr Mupamhanga said a delegation of ministers was going to tour the project site. “It is pleasing to note that the ministers will also come here to have an appreciation and ensure that the water from Tugwi-Mukosi Dam is not put to waste. We have projects like irrigation where the feasibility study is being done, a 15 megawatt hydro-power plant whose site we have seen at the power house. “There is also tourism, which you can easily feel, see or smell, as you arrive at this dam. There is also an opportunity for education, both primary and secondary, as well as tertiary. We have three professors from Great Zimbabwe University and Midlands State University who are studying how they can develop an institution on the application of water to help people,” he said. On the more than 3 000 families who were evacuated from the dam’s flood basin in 2014 and settled at Chingwizi in Mwenezi, Mr Mupamhanga said Government would ensure that first benefits go to the affected families. Energy and Power Development Ministry’s secretary Dr Gloria Magombo said the hydro power plant project would take off soon following the licensing of development partners. “There is already critical infrastructure in the form of power house. We will make sure all dams will have such infrastructure as part of the project so that we can be able to generate electricity,” she said. “We have already identified an independent power producer who has been licensed by the Zimbabwe Energy Regulatory Authority (Zera). The developer has also identified partners who will work with them. The developer is Tugwi-Mukosi (Pvt) Limited.” Masvingo Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Ezra Chadzamira, expressed optimism that tangible benefits were going to be accrued from the multi-million dam. “We are now sure that tangible benefits are going to be accrued from Tugwi-Mukosi now that there is some activity. The visit by the permanent secretaries shows that Government is serious about this project. Very soon, we are going to see the results,” said Minister Chadzamira. The delegation led by Mr Mupamhanga and Minister Chadzamira also undertook boat cruise sessions while assessing other project sites. Also present were; Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing secretary Mr George Magosvongwe, Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa) acting chief executive Engineer Taurai Muarikira, Ministry of Health and Child Care secretary Dr Gerald Gwinji. — @walterbswazie2