The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
ORGANISERS of the traditional football season tournament opener, the ZNA Charity Shield, are mooting changing the competition’s format from a four-team event to two in a move aimed at maximising on pickings. Army charities secretary Lieutenant-Colonel Fabion Chitungo said they are finalising on the two teams to compete in the ZNA Charity Shield. He hinted that Bulawayo giants Highlanders had been shortlisted for the match against a team that will be announced today. Caps United, Chicken Inn, Dynamos and Highlanders took part in last year’s tournament, which DeMbare won after beating Bosso 2-1 in the final. “We’re working on our ZNA Charity Shield match and by end of the day tomorrow we should be done with the names of the participants. We are changing the format a bit and are consulting relevant stakeholders. From our side, we found it economically viable to have the challenge match between two teams in Bulawayo as opposed to four teams. We are aware that the ZNA Charity Shield has grown over the years, attracting a huge following, but let’s not forget that this competition is meant to raise funds for ZNA Charities, which means we mustn’t have lots of expenses than income. By end of day tomorrow (today) we will be having the date and names of teams that will compete in the ZNA Charity Shield,” said Chitungo. By virtue of commanding a huge following and being the club whose games were watched by most fans last season, Highlanders are favourites to be in the competition and now await their opponent. Chitungo said they intend to raise at least $500 000 from the charity events lined up for the year, with the soccer tournament target being $20 000. In the three soccer matches played last year, the organisers raised $70 000 after match day related costs had gobbled a significant amount, which probably led to them revisiting the tournament’s format. Apart from the soccer tournament, the other fundraising initiatives are the ZNA Charities Ball, Bulawayo Golf Tournament, a dinner dance, a horse racing event to be held at the Borrowdale Racecourse in Harare and a thanksgiving dinner. Proceeds from the tournament will go to the ZNA charities, Tsanga Lodge Convalescent Centre in Nyanga, Army Widows and Orphans Benevolent Fund, which caters for financial needs of widows, widowers and orphans of deceased members. There is also the ZNA Benevolent Fund, which seeks to boost troops’ morale internally and externally, ZNA Schools Welfare Trust Fund, which caters for the various schools that fall under the military institution, and ZNA Patients Welfare Fund, which offers assistance and goodies to members admitted to hospitals and those ill at home. – @ZililoR.