The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
PEOPLE in low lying areas have been urged to be on alert due to possible flooding, following reports that some parts of the country, particularly in Matabeleland region will receive heavy rainfall accompanied by violent thunderstorms. In an interview, the Civil Protection Unit (CPU) director Mr Nathan Nkomo said they have already communicated to flood-prone districts in low lying areas that people must be on alert after the Meteorological Services Department (MSD) issued a statement warning of heavy rains that may lead to floods. He said the CPU was also working with mobile network service providers to raise awareness on floods and precautionary measures. Mr Nkomo said the CPU was ready to avert any danger of floods and had put measures in place to promptly respond to distress calls from flood prone areas. “We’ve received a warning from the MSD. We’ve communicated this message to all the districts in the region, particularly the low lying areas. “I can also confirm that we’re more than ready for any disasters. All teams are active on the ground including the army, which will help us in case some people are marooned,” said Mr Nkomo. He said since the rainy season started, no people have been marooned but the CPU was concerned about areas such as Tsholotsho and Gwayi in Matabeleland North province. “It’s unfortunate that the areas which were mostly affected by heat waves are the same areas that are also prone to floods and violent storms. “I’m glad that we moved some families from Gwayi and Tsholotsho to Tshino and Sawudweni villages and 69 houses have been completed for the 74 families that were moved. We are working on completing the remaining five houses. I want to appeal to Tsholotsho villagers who were relocated to avoid going back to their old homesteads because they might find themselves being marooned again,” said Mr Nkomo. He also urged members of the public to desist from crossing flooded rivers. “Members of the public should also desist from hiding under trees or using umbrellas with metal tips and handles when it’s raining to avoid being struck by lightning,” said Mr Nkomo. Areas such as Tsholotsho are prone to flooding whenever the country experiences heavy rains. In 2017, floods affected 36 districts resulting in extensive damage to infrastructure including roads, schools and health institutions. More than 140 dams were destroyed. More than 200 people were killed, an estimated 130 were injured while 100 000 were either displaced or left homeless. In Tsholotsho district nearly 2 000 people were displaced and more than 800 had to be evacuated and temporary accommodated at a makeshift camp at Sipepa Clinic. — @pamelashumba1