The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls
VICTORIA Falls-based paralympians have been invited to a four-day fundraising sporting event in Durban, South Africa, set for March 15-19. Victoria Falls Wheelchair Warriors Club will be sending four players and two officials to the all expenses paid Achillis 24 hours Handcycle Relay event to compete against a number of Durban clubs in wheelchair relay and marathon. Durban-based Oliver Sinclair invited the club last year when he participated in the handcycle category of the 2018 Econet Victoria Falls Marathon. Walter Ndlovu of Vic Falls Wheelchair Warriors Club said the invitation has given them hope for the future of paralympians. “We have been invited to a marathon event in South Africa where we are sending four players and two officials. We are a basketball club, but we do several disciplines so that all our members at least have a code to take part in,” said Ndlovu. “In Durban we will be competing in track events between 15 and19 March where the organisers seek to fundraise for charity. This is an opportunity for us as well because we also need wheelchairs as a club.” The travelling team comprises Ndlovu, Samson Muroiwa, Jabulani Moyo and Innocent Tevedzai, with Sazini Banda and Priscillar Mhlanga as the two officlas. “I met Oliver when he came for the Victoria Falls Marathon and we spoke about sport. He suggested that we have club exchange visits and we are happy that he has honoured his promise. He is catering for our transport, accommodation and food and we also appeal to well wishers to help us so we get new wheelchairs or repair the ones we have. We also need pocket money for general upkeep,” added Ndlovu. Sinclair said proceeds from the event will go to charity. “This is an event for charity. The majority of participants will be able bodied people, but we decided to include the wheelchair category since we are raising money for Ethembeni School for the Disabled in Durban. The whole idea is to raise money and awareness for the disabled,” Sinclair said. He said plans were underway to expand the event across the southern African region. — @ncubeleon