The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
MPOPOMA High School on Friday held their inter-house track and field athletics competitions as it geared up for the upcoming inter-schools meet next week. The school, a rising figure in the sporting arena in Bulawayo, has four competition houses namely Ingwenya, Chigumira, Sivako and Mthimkhulu with overall winners being Chigumira followed by Ingwenya while Sivako and Mthimkhulu houses were third and fourth respectively. There were also individual outstanding athletes per each age group that saw Brendon Moyo being named as the most outstanding Under-20 boys. Moyo competes in the 200m and 400m events. Methembe Sibanda, who also is a 200m and 400m athlete, was adjudged the best in the Under-17 boys catergory while Thandazani Ndlovu was named the most outstanding athlete in the Under-15 boys catergory. Ndlovu is a 400m, 800m and 1 500m events athlete. In the girls’ section, Sharai Zimbwa, who ruled the roots in the 800m, 1 500m and 3 000m events, was named the most outstanding girls Under-20 athlete with Hazel Ngwenya who ran the 100m, 200m and 400m events, being named the best in the girls Under-17 category while Priviledge Ndlovu got the gong in the girls Under-15. She was competing in the 100m and 200m races respectively. After the inter-house meet, a schools team will be selected and undergo a rigorous training schedule as they prepare for next week’s competition which will be held at White City Stadium. Yesterday’s meet was graced by renowned athletics coach and sports scientist Bhekuzulu Khumalo who expressed satisfaction with the level of competition he witnessed. “I have seen some good sprints from the youngsters but was particularly impressed by their boys’ Under-20 relay team, its good and its almost a certain medal hopeful next week for the school. My only concern though is the standard of their pitch which is small,” said Khumalo. Mpopoma High School’s track is actually 100 metres shorter but that has not deterred the school from doing well against other schools in a standard track like White City Stadium.