The Chronicle Harare Bureau
ZIMBABWE is ready for the International Tourism Bourse (ITB Berlin) as the country steps up efforts to lure international tourism arrivals and propel the re-engagement drive. ITB Berlin runs from 6 to 10 March. It is the world’s leading travel trade show and one of the major tourist source markets for Africa. By attending ITB Berlin 2019, Zimbabwe aims to generate business leads, create and consolidate on existing and new relationships. It also aims to market the destination through assuring the German market of the safety and viability of Zimbabwe given the recent occurrences. In a preparatory briefing ahead of the event, Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Priscah Mupfumira said global recognition of destination Zimbabwe by various prominent travel sites like Lonely Planet, makes it imperative to maintain the status and continue to make brand Zimbabwe shine in the region and internationally. Following the aforesaid endorsements, this year’s selling point will be a bundle of benefits that include everything that Zimbabwe has to offer from the landscape to the all year round lovely climate and the wonderful people. “A lot of investments and developments have been witnessed within the tourism industry as we continue to launch new products in response to the rise in tourist arrivals,” said Minister Mupfumira. She called on the industry to continue on that upward stride as tourism is proving to be one of the key pillars for economic revival. The Minister added that the tourism sector is open to new ideas and strategies that can improve tourism revival in the country. So far 26 local tourism players have committed to exhibit at the ITB Berlin and as the dates draw near, more are expected to join. The tourism players billed to exhibit include African Sun Hotels, Amalinda Safari Collection, Chilo Gorge Safari Lodge, Landela Safaris and Cresta Hotels among others. This highlights the eagerness of Team Tourism Zimbabwe in repositioning Zimbabwe as the foremost and must visit tourism destination.