The Chronicle Walter Mswazie in Masvingo
MASVINGO Tuku tribute musical concert which was slated for Caravan Park on Friday last week could not take off due to logistical challenges with organisers saying it will be held after February 16. The event was meant to serve as a dedication to the life of the late global icon and national hero, Oliver Mtukudzi. Tuku died on January, 23 at the Avenues Clinic in Harare after battling diabetes for long. He was 66. Ministry of Youth, Sports, Art and Recreation provincial officer June Mbizvo said the concert could not go ahead as scheduled due to some logistical challenges but the show was definitely going to be held at the same venue. The Ministry of Youth, Sports, Arts and Recreation is the new organiser of the event in conjunction with the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe’s (NACZ) provincial office. He also said the province, in liaison with NACZ’s provincial office had agreed to postpone the concert to February 16 which has since been shifted to a later date. “We had scheduled the musical concert to February 16 but we are going to have a national concert in Harare. We are going to have ours in Masvingo later on,” said Mbizvo. He encouraged artistes willing to participate to approach NACZ provincial offices as the Ministry was only dealing with musicians certified by the council. “I think there is quite a number of artistes who were willing to participate and we still expect them to be among our participants. “Any artistes who want to participate should approach NACZ as we want things done in a proper manner. Once an artiste is recommended, he or she is free to partake,” he said. Many artistes across the country are arranging galas or concerts with visual artistes in Harare’s Chitungwiza having dedicated a bus stop to the late music icon through paintings. In South Africa the situation is the same, Hugh Masekela Foundation is expected to organise a memorial for the late Tuku at Johannesburg Theatre today. The memorial has been described, as, “A cry of sorrow and loss, a cry of remembrance, a cry of joy and love. Come share with us as we celebrate this son of Zimbabwe and child of Africa”. Tuku was buried at his rural home in Madziwa, Mashonaland Central, on January, 27.