The Chronicle Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter
POLICE in Matabeleland South have launched a manhunt for an alleged sexual abuser who impregnated a 13-year-old girl in Gwanda. Tafara Moyo (20) from Binga allegedly abused the victim for an unspecified period until she fell pregnant and gave birth to a baby girl last month. The baby, however, died in Bulawayo under unclear circumstances having lived for only 20 days. The suspect fled when police investigations started in September last year. Matabeleland South police spokesperson Chief Inspector Philisani Ndebele said the matter came to light when school authorities took the minor to the clinic after she developed complications. “The matter came to light when the minor experienced some complications at school. School officials took her to Simbumbumbi Clinic where it was discovered that the minor was pregnant. “Clinic authorities reported the matter to police and that is when investigations started. The suspect disappeared from the community,” he said. Chief Insp Ndebele said it was alleged the victim’s family was aware of the pregnancy and had kept quiet about the matter after the suspect promised to marry the girl. He appealed to members of the public who may have information on the whereabouts of the suspect to contact their nearest police station. Chief Insp Ndebele encouraged the public to quickly report sexual abuse and rape matters saying concealing such cases complicates investigations and the life of the victim. “We warn parents and guardians to desist from concealing sexual abuse matters as that destroys the victim’s future. Sadly parents are concealing most of the cases especially if they involve a relative or their lovers. In so doing they are violating a section of the Child Protection and Adoption Act. “As police we’re worried about cases of sexual abuse and we’re appealing to members of the public to help combat the crime. Juveniles are being raped by close relatives such as uncles, cousins, their mothers’ lovers and tenants,” said Chief Insp Ndebele. This paper reported two weeks ago that after the pregnancy, the minor was referred to Bulawayo to give birth. In Bulawayo, she stayed at Entumbane suburb with relatives until the time she gave birth. While still there and 20 days after the child’s birth, the infant died under mysterious circumstances which are still being investigated by the police. The juvenile told the police that she had left her child asleep for an hour, only to find her dead on Sunday.— @winnie_masara