The Chronicle Bridgette Moyo, Midlands Reporter
A Nkayi man is on the run after he allegedly fatally hacked his 89 –year- old neighbour with a machete before turning the weapon on the wife accusing the elderly couple of spreading rumours about his life. Midlands provincial police spokesperson Inspector Joel Goko confirmed the murder of Joseph Rodreck and the hospitalisation of his wife Ntombizodzwa Bhebhe after they were attacked by a machete-wielding Vusumuzi Mnkandla. Insp Goko said the incident happened at Rodreck’s home at Rayland Farm in Lower Gweru on Sunday around 6PM. He said Rodreck died upon admission to Gweru Provincial Hospital while his wife is being treated of wounds sustained during the attack. “I can confirm that we are investigating the alleged murder case in which Joseph Roderick from Rayland Farm in Lower Gweru was allegedly hacked to death by Vusumuzi Mnkandla (25) on Sunday. “It is said that Mnkandla visited the deceased’s home and accused him and his wife of spreading rumours about his life and a misunderstanding arose leading to a fight. Mnkandla produced a machete and struck both Rodreck and his wife before fleeing the scene. The two were rushed to hospital and Rodreck died upon admission,” said Insp Goko. He appealed to members of the public who might have any information about the whereabouts of Mnkandla to report to any nearest police station. Meanwhile, a suspected goat thief is facing attempted murder charges after allegedly shooting at four villagers who were tracking his gang which is notorious for stealing goats in Lower Gweru. Insp Goko said on Saturday at around 11PM Hlahla Netha (22) of Lower Gweru got a tip off that an unknown group of male adults were seen passing Shagari Business Centre driving some goats. Netha who had also lost some of his goats sought assistance from three fellow villagers who had lost their goats and followed the gang to the destination they were taking the animals. Upon arrival they came across Lovemore Mpofu who allegedly shot at them upon realising that the villagers had managed to identify their goats among those they were driving. “Mpofu, after shooting at Netha and three other villagers fled from the scene leaving behind the goats. Police have since launched a man hunt for him and his gang. He is facing attempted murder and stock theft charges. 17 goats where recovered,” said Insp Goko.