The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
GOVERNMENT says it will soon come up with a new Information and Communications Technology (ICT) policy that will see telecommunication and data services provision in the country, with new players expected to be licensed. The new policy will see the Postal and Telecommunication Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe (Potraz) issuing mobile virtual network operators licences. Responding to questions in the Senate last week, Information Communication Technology and Courier Services Kazembe Kazembe said the new ICT Policy is on the cards. “One major change that is introduced through the policy is the dismantling of technology and service based silos. The new licensing framework will remove the distinctions between fixed and mobile networks, thus allowing operators to fully utilise the potential of the technology platforms without being restricted by licensing conditions,” he said. “I am happy to advise this August House that draft regulations are now at the Attorney General’s office and promulgation is expected soon. Based on the new regulations, Potraz would then issue service and technology neutral licences,” said Minister Kazembe. He said under the new framework, mobile virtual network operators’ licences would be issued. “Internet access providers will be allowed mobility and fixed networks will offer mobility. That in summary is how Potraz intends to bring in new players and new paradigm in the electronic communications sector in Zimbabwe,” said Minister Kazembe. The Minister pointed out that there were, however, no plans by Potraz to licence new mobile operators in the country. “I wish to advise the House that Potraz has no plans to licence more mobile operators. Allow me at the outset to underline that in discharging its mandate on licensing, Potraz is guided by the ICT Policy that will be in force at the relevant time and is bound by the laws of the country,” said Minister Kazembe. He said Internet access providers are now capable of offering mobile voice services which encroach into a domain previously reserved for mobile network operators. “That phenomenon is what is called convergence. Convergence has made it necessary for Zimbabwe to review its licensing framework in order to preserve the competitiveness of the ICT infrastructure and service markets,” said Minister Kazembe. — @AuxiliaK