The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter BUSINESS executives in the country have called for a national dialogue to address the challenges facing the country. The call follows last week’s meeting between President Emmerson Mnangagwa and losing presidential candidates in the July 30, 2018 harmonised elections. Only two parties, MDC Alliance led by Mr Nelson Chamisa and the Republican Party failed to show up for the dialogue. In his opening remarks at the 6th CEO Africa Roundtable conference in Victoria Falls yesterday, Mr Oswell Binha who is the organisation’s chairperson said collective action was needed on the country’s challenges. “Clearly the country is divided in various platforms with emotions high as the injured populace recollects the nightmares of the bearer cheques and the wiping-off of their life-long savings back in 2009. The country has a responsibility to address in an inclusive manner certain fundamentals and we can’t wait any longer on these issues. “As hard as it may be, it’s important that as a country we make a collective decision on which path to take on this matter. The problems we are faced with now are not new. In 2008, soon after election we had a similar situation. Dialogue and mutual understanding amongst political parties ended all our woes. If dialogue worked then, it can work now. We need national dialogue,” said Mr Binha. He implored politicians to be guided by national interests. Mr Binha said the nation has what it takes to transform its economy as it is endowed with natural resources. “As CEOs we need to engage in frank, factual and no holds barred dialogue in pursuit of solutions to the challenges that bedevil us today,” said Mr Binha. Speaker of Parliament Advocate Jacob Mudenda who was a panelist at the conference concurred and challenged the business sector to lead dialogue. “On the need for national dialogue, let’s cause that dialogue to happen. Pressurise and say business is not happening because of these challenges and we want dialogue as business people. “That voice is silent at the moment. CEOs and business should have the ability to engage political leaders across the divide so they synergise for a better Zimbabwe,” said Adv Mudenda. He said the country cannot continue “blaming imperial powers forever” and needs “magnetic leadership”. Adv Mudenda said business leaders have a role to play in championing the continent’s Agenda 2063 which seeks to improve the lives of the ordinary citizens. Another panelist, Mr Tendai Biti, who chairs the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Public Accounts said dialogue should be conditional. He said dialogue “should be genuine and underwritten by the international community.” Delegates called upon the Speakers of Parliament to summon political parties for the dialogue to happen. The theme for the conference is: “From talk to unified action towards a more responsible and inclusive national economy.” — @ncubeleon.