The Chronicle Business Reporter
THE economy is ready for take-off under President Mnangagwa’s Government and domestic and foreign investors should take advantage of the on-going reforms to set up viable businesses in the country, a Cabinet Minister has said. Speaking in Dubai where she is leading an eight member delegation attending the World Government Summit, Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister, Prisca Mupfumira, said Government was implementing concrete measures to cement business growth and attracting increased investment. “Zimbabwe’s economy is ready for take-off. The country’s fiscal deficit is being taken care of by the Government and the people of the Republic. “Zimbabwe is ready for international investment and to once again foster an environment for people to prosper and make money. “Now is the time to invest in the Zimbabwean tourism sector, I dare say, don’t miss the boat,” she said, adding that the country’s tourism industry was ripe for success. The World Government Summit is a global platform dedicated to shaping the future of governments worldwide. Each year, the event sets the agenda for the next generation of governments, focusing on how they can harness innovation and technology to solve universal challenges facing humanity. The Zimbabwean delegation includes Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Deputy Minister Lovemore Matuke, the Public Service Commission Representative Commissioner, Dr Tsitsi Choruma, who is with the Commission’s human resources director Simon Masanga and Dr Precious Sibiya a director in the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry. The country’s marketing arm, the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) is using the summit to position and market Zimbabwe as a destination of choice. ZTA Chief Operating Officer, Mr Givemore Chidzidzi and the organisation’s spokesperson, Mr Godfrey Koti are part of the delegation focusing on increasing the visibility of the country internationally. Minister Mupfumira described the World Government Summit as a knowledge exchange platform for leaders in the public and private sectors to convene and collaborate with world-renowned experts to create a positive impact for citizens worldwide. “We believe as a country and in particular as a ministry we can benefit from the sessions and above all this is a great platform to market destination Zimbabwe,” she said. The event hosts over 4 000 participants among them world leaders, international organisations’ representatives, thinkers and experts from over 150 countries. Among the guests is Pope Francis who has urged policymakers and government leaders to think about not only economic but social and moral interests when tackling global challenges. “It is my sincere hope that the question underlying your reflections will not only be ‘what are the best opportunities to take advantage of?’ but ‘what kind of world do we want to build together?” he said. This, he said, would lead policymakers to think about moral and environmental interests, not just economic ones. “This question leads us to think of people and of persons rather than capital and economic interests. “It is a question that does not look to tomorrow, but further into the future, to the responsibility weighing upon us; handing on this world of ours to those who will come after us, preserving it from environmental degradation and, even before that, from moral degradation,” he added.