The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
BULAWAYO Basketball League (men) table toppers Mavericks will have a reality check on Saturday in their quest to maintain their unbeaten run when they face Giants at Khanyisile Sports Centre in Bulawayo. Giants will be hoping to turn things following their shock defeat by Highlanders A. Giants have also bolstered their squad by snatching up two players, Mthokozisisi Ncube and Nicholas Zitha, from Highlanders A. However, Mavericks coach Admose Ndlovu said the additions by their opponents are not things to worry about as they’re well prepared for the match. “It’s no secret that the acquisition of these two players by Giants strengthens their offensive part of the game, but I have coached both of them at secondary school level so I know their strengths and weaknesses. We need to work on our defensive part because they will be attacking from all cylinders,” said Ndlovu. He said his charges have enough arsenal to beat the defending champions as long as they optimise their options. A win for Mavericks will put them in a good position to claim the league title. In another match, Highlanders B will square off with Oilers, while Oilers-Clippers will entertain Nust. There is a potential mouth-watering ladies’ encounter pitting Lakers and Mavericks. Lakers have experience in big games, having participated in the FIBA Afro Basketball tournament held in Mozambique. Bulawayo Basketball League promotions and marketing officer Francis Dube said: “The game between Mavericks women and Lakers is the fixture of the season in the women’s section, as both teams are currently unbeaten. It’s likely that the winners of this match will lift the title at the end of the season. “Mavericks have been playing well with a young side, but they will have to be on top of their game when they face their opponents who have acquired the services of Kuda Bale from Botswana Police Academy.” Fixtures
Men: -Oilers-Clippers vs Nust (1:30pm) -Highlanders B vs Oilers (3:10PM) -Giants vs Mavericks (6:30PM). Women: -Mavericks vs Lakers Snr (4:50 PM) — @DecoDecent2