The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
FC PLATINUM will be direct in their approach against Guinea champions Horoya AC by attacking the West Africans from the first whistle of their “must-win” Caf Champions League encounter at Barbourfields Stadium this afternoon. Both teams are winless in two outings and are pressed for victory to enhance their chances of progressing to the next stage of the competition. FC Platinum and Horoya are tied on one point, while Orlando Pirates of South Africa and Esperance of Tunisia are tied on four points. Orlando Pirates top the group due to a superior goal difference. Norman Mapeza, the FC Platinum coach said his charges are fired up for Horoya. “We know the importance of tomorrow’s match. We’re in the same position with Horoya and playing at home, we need to push if we really want to enhance our chances of progressing in the competition; we really need to win,” said Mapeza. “The guys are okay, they are raring to go. Games like this are not about physical appearance it’s about mental strength. We’ve come a long way and it’s now up to the boys who have to push.” The former Zimbabwe international said they will be offensive from the onset. “There’s no way as FC Platinum we go to a game to play to lose. We always go there trying to get a positive result, but unfortunately it didn’t happen in Tunisa. I feel that defensively we were good in Tunisia, the moment we gained possession we were very slow coming out of the blocks. We were congested, our movement off the ball after regaining possession was a bit slow. We are playing at home, we have to attack; 70 percent we have to attack, but have to be cautious as well,” said Mapeza. He expressed gratitude to the supporters for backing them and promised a good show. “We always appreciate the support we get from fans. I know people from Zvishavane are coming, people from Gweru, Harare, Victoria Falls will be here as well as those from Bulawayo. This game is for everybody who loves football. They should come and watch a good game,” Mapeza said.
Horoya are 16-time Guinean champions and are planning to upset the platinum miners. Caf Champions League Group B fixtures Today: -FC Platinum v Horoya AC (Barbourfields Stadium, 3pm) -Orlando Pirates v Esperance (Orlando Stadium) Table
                           P W D L F A GD Pts
Orlando Pirates 2 1 1 0 3 0 3 4
Esperance 2 1 1 0 3 1 2 4
FC Platinum 2 0 1 1 0 2 -2 1
Horoya 2 0 1 1 4 1 -3 1 — @ZililoR