The Chronicle Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief
The trial of former Midlands Provincial Affairs Minister Jason Machaya, Mashonaland West provincial administrator Cecilia Chitiyo and six other senior Government employees, has been set for March 4. Machaya (65), Chitiyo (50) who is also the former PA for Midlands province, Matilda Manhambo (59), Sherpard Marweyi (48), Sifelani Moyo (59), Ethel Mlalazi (65), Chisainyerwa Chibhururu (47) and Everest Nyamadzawo (33) yesterday appeared before Bulawayo regional magistrate Mrs Sibongile Msipa-Marondedze facing charges of illegally allocating more than 11 000 stands to land developers. They are also facing criminal abuse of office charges. Lawyers representing the accused yesterday applied for the postponement of the case citing that they had not received their clients’ warned and cautioned statements from the State. Mr Tapiwa Kasema for the State accused the defence lawyers of deliberately attempting to frustrate the State witnesses, some of whom were coming from Harare, by seeking postponement of the trial. Mrs Msipa- Marondedze however ruled in favour of the defence and moved the trial to March 4. “The defence lawyers are saying they were not served with the accused’s warned and cautioned statements and the State is not sure whether or not it served them. The State is therefore ordered to furnish the defence with the statements and by consent we will have the trial kicking off on March 4. I don’t want to be told stories on March 4 when we go for trial,” she said. Machaya is on $1 000 bail while Chitiyo, Manhambo, Marweyi, Moyo, Mlalazi, Chibhururu and Nyamadzawo are on $200 bail each. It is the State’s case that Chitiyo, who was employed as the PA for Midlands province, allegedly intentionally allocated State land totalling 4 469 stands to land developers by co-signing offer letters for the State land with Machaya. Manhambo, who is employed as the provincial projects officer by the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing allegedly allocated 2 000 stands to land developers and entities working in cahoots with Machaya. Similarly, Marweyi, who is the district administrator for Gweru, allegedly allocated 5 199 stands to land developers also working in cahoots with Machaya. Nyamadzawo, who is an administrative officer is accused of unlawfully writing a survey instruction letter to the Surveyor-General, instructing his office to nominate a surveyor for the State land, knowing fully well that Government had not allocated that land. Survey instructions, the State argues, can only be written in respect of State land allocated to persons and entities by the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing. Chibhururu, Moyo and Mlalazi are facing abuse of office charges.