The Chronicle Rashiwe Murisa, Sports Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Softball Association is looking to build a strong team for the World Baseball and Softball Confederation qualifier scheduled for May this year. The association is conducting national selection team camps for the women’s team and softball head coach Eldon Mudzingwa said he has been impressed by the turnout in Harare recently. “The turnout was beyond our expectations and I must say I was very impressed by the raw talent that came through. Most of our players come from Harare but we are not limiting ourselves to Harare only so we are going on a nationwide search for new players.” “So far we have shortlisted players from Harare but the final list will be availed when we round up our camps sometime in March,” said Mudzingwa. The try-outs are supposed to get 30 players into the camp which will later be trimmed to 25 players. Finally, the team will be downsized to an 18-member squad for the 2019 women’s team. The selected players will also have an opportunity to represent the country at the WBSC Africa/Europe Olympic qualifier to be held in May in South Africa. ZSA are rebuilding their team after having disbanded last year. “We disbanded the team that went for the World Cup qualifiers last year on paper but the team is still intact and half of the players are coming back. We want to fuse the old and new players to make an even stronger team,” added Mudzingwa. He said the trials are also pencilled for other towns. In Kadoma and Bulawayo the selection will take place at Rimuka High School and Mandwandwe High School respectively on February 16 and 17. Mutare and Masvingo will host the tryouts on March 2 and 3 at venues to be announced in due course. “We urge all women that are good in softball to come out and try their luck. If successful they could be considered for the national team. They are supposed to bring their personal playing kit for the try-outs,” said Mudzingwa. The national team select will be in camp for four to five days in May before their WBSC Africa/Europe Olympic qualifier. “We will be in camp ahead of the competition because we need to be fit both physically and mentally. If resources permit we would like to have at least one friendly match just to see how prepared we would be.”