The Chronicle Mukudzei Chingwere, Harare Bureau WARRIORS’ coach, Sunday Chidzambwa, will have to find a winning formula with the troops that he has been using up to this stage after it emerged that no new players will be available for the Afcon qualifier against Congo in Harare. The Warriors need to avoid defeat to qualify for the Afcon finals in Egypt. Warriors team manager, Wellington Mpandare, said they were likely to use the players who have featured for the team before. The Government have cleared the path for those eligible to play for the Warriors to get their documents processed quickly. This has seen the likes of Tendayi Darikwa and Aleck Mudimu featuring for the Warriors. However, repeated attempts to incorporate more players playing in competitive leagues in Europe appear to have failed to bear fruit. “There are a number of players the coach wanted to have but as long as they are not committed to play for their country there is nothing we can do,’’ said Mpandare. “For example, there is the issue of (Macaulay) Bonne, we have been trying to have him as part of the team and there are papers he is supposed to submit but he has not yet submitted. “When Darikwa, for example, said he wanted to play for the team, it did not take us long to process his papers, having a passport is not a big issue because it is not difficult to acquire the passport, it is about the player’s commitment.’’ Chidzambwa, however, can bring in Leicester City’s forward Admiral Muskwe amid reports that the attacker already has a Zimbabwean                                                                        passport. Mistry Chipere of the Zimbabwe Foreign Legion, who have the data base of foreign-based Zimbabwean players, confirmed yesterday Muskwe has a Zimbabwean passport and is eligible to play for the Warriors. “I think that Admiral Muskwe, Seth Patrick and Matifadza Zata are ready to challenge for starting places in the Warriors,” said Chipere, works together with UK-based Zimbabwean coach, Phillip Zulu in identifying these players.