The Chronicle Nkosilathi Sibanda, Business Correspondent
A GROUP of enterprising women in Bulawayo have embarked on an agribusiness project that is likely to transform urban farming and offer their families food security. The women, who are part of the Bulawayo-based empowerment organisation, Upfumi Kumadzimai-Inotho Kubomama, are already doing poultry and market gardening with the intention of supplying various markets. In their project, the farmers are mooting an innovative idea of packaging their produce in order to attract new markets and improve their brand. Speaking soon after a tour of their farming enterprise at Sauerstown, the organisation’s co-ordinator, Mrs Nonceba Mwedzi-Agwaniru, said their involvement in farming would be a game changer as they would work to transform agriculture to ensure women’s social and economic empowerment. At the farm, which was leased from the AFM church, the women tend to 3 000 chickens. “Household food security is at the core of our vision as we start our farming project. “This is going to be a serious business. We want to be innovative, especially in packaging. “Right packaging is crucial to successful delivery of agricultural produce,” she said. “So far, 30 women have committed to be hands on and see to it that the poultry and horticulture venture becomes a success. “It is a team effort. We envision a situation where our farm produce reaches various markets not only for our gain but the country at large. “We are farming so that we empower ourselves and the community we live in.” Mrs Mwedzi-Agwaniru said they plan to utilise the resources on the farm, of which the abundance of water at their disposal will prop up their horticulture. She said the women farmers comprise widows and single mothers whose situation has led them to consider taking up farming. “The farmers are a unique grouping with a passion for business and will to change their economic standing. It is well known that very few women own or run businesses, as such this venture will be an example to many women that they can farm and make a living. “In the long run we are going to do mixed farming because we want to take advantage of the huge tract of land and water that is abundant at the farm,” said Mwedzi-Agwaniru. In an interview, two of the farmers expressed gratitude at the opportunity offered by Upfumi Kumadzimai-Inotho Kubomama, saying it is bound to uplift their families’ fortunes. “This is one project that is bound to change the way we look at agriculture. We are taking this seriously as we see it as more than a business. “The fact that we work as a team gives us the zeal to achieve. I am a single parent, so making ends meet is at times a tall order but ever since I started with this organisation, I have refocused my energies to business,” said Miss Charity Dube. Another farmer, Ms Euchale Nyoni said her involvement is driven by her passion for entrepreneurship. “It has been a long time since I had this dream to start farming. Now that is has materialised, I know we are going to reap rewards. “We are pulling all strings to make sure that we farm in order to change our lives and be the preferred source of farm produce in the city and its surroundings.” The women said in the collective effort, they are in the process of lobbying for funding so that they expand their enterprise. Mrs Mwedzi-Agwaniru added that there were plans to set up farm shops as they seek to diversify and have control in the production and supply chain of their business. “In our continued efforts to look for funding, we remain confident of getting the necessary support because women do farming better and profitably. “We only seek to add to the agricultural production chain. The hardworking women that we have in this project seek to make profit for the sustenance of the family as opposed to personal gain,” she said.