The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
AT least 70 candidates have applied for the post of chief elections officer in the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission, an official has said. The electoral commission advertised the post last December following the departure of Mrs Constance Chigwamba. Mr Utloile Silaigwana has been the acting chief elections officer since March last year. In an emailed response to The Chronicle, Zec Human Resource director, Mr James Chidamba, said they had already shortlisted candidates from the 70 application letters received. “A total of 70 applications were received. A committee of the Commission comprising of Commissioners screened applications and shortlisted about 10 candidates for further selection,” said Mr Chidamba. He said interviews would be conducted in March 2019. Zec appointed Mr Silaigwana as the acting chief elections officer taking over from Mrs Chigwamba who went back to the Public Service Commission in March last year. The post of Chief Elections Officer was advertised in the local media in the first and second week of December 2018, with a closing date of December 28, 2018. In a vacancy notice flighted in December, Zec said the chief elections officer would be reporting to the chairperson of the commission and the commission. “The commission wishes to recruit a professional of high integrity with good communication skills and sound knowledge of electoral democracy to a vacancy that has arisen in the institution,” read the notice. The commission said the CEO would be the accounting officer of the commission responsible for strategising, formulating and co-ordinating the activities of the Commission in the conduct of all referendums and elections to the offices stipulated in the law. “Managing all assets and funds of the commission to ensure effective and efficient utilisation for the attainment of the commission’s vision and mission. Guiding the commission on policy and electoral laws reviews,” read the notice. The successful candidate will also be responsible for guiding the commission in its discharge of its constitutional mandate, conducting delimitations, voter registration and elections effectively and efficiently among other duties. Zec said the applicants must hold a good first class degree in Administration, Social Sciences, Law, Information Technology, Business administration, education or any other relevant qualifications as well as a relevant Master’s degree, proven track record, delivery and good governance.—@AuxiliaK