The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
ZANU-PF has welcomed the visit by Botswana President Mokgweetsi Eric Masisi for the inaugural Zimbabwe-Botswana Bi-National Commission (BNC), saying the development will cement relations between the two countries. President Masisi arrived in the country last night for the BNC as President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s administration ratchets up diplomatic re-engagement efforts designed to unlock mutually beneficial relations. Official meetings under the historic BNC began on Sunday. In a statement yesterday, Zanu-PF spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said the visit by President Masisi will strengthen relations between the two countries. “The Bi-National Commission between Zimbabwe and Botswana is a most welcome development cementing relations between the two sister countries. “The fact that the meeting by its nature will be co-chaired by the Presidents of the two countries and will cover areas of diplomacy, mining and geology, health and agriculture, science and technology speaks volumes on the focus of economic development,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said it was further encouraging to note that another Bi-National Commission between Zimbabwe and South Africa will be held in Harare shortly. “We wish both meetings tremendous success. Those who clamour that the country’s natural resources are being mortgaged are whistling in a graveyard. “Zanu-PF strongly believes that any economic thrust without political support by ruling parties of respective countries can pose a challenge,” he said. “It’s therefore vital that in this case Zanu-PF, the Botswana Democratic Party (BDP) and the ANC in South Africa work hand in glove to support such initiatives. The parties must consolidate their existing fraternal relations and lead from the front.” Eight agreements covering political, diplomatic and economic sectors are expected to be signed. Harare and Gaborone upgraded their relations from a Joint Commission to Bi-National Commission in August last year, paving the way for annual meetings between the two Heads of State. Relations between Zimbabwe and its neighbour were frosty under the old administration but they are beginning to thaw under President Mnangagwa-led administration. — @pamelashumba1.