The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
TOMASIK Tennis Club founder Fadzai Madzimbamuto and three Swiss coaches are in Bulawayo to prepare for a tennis coaching session that will be held at Emakhandeni Tennis Club tomorrow. The Switzerland-based Madzimbamuto, a former tennis player, said the coaches are looking forward to the occasion and will monitor some of the kids with the hope of sponsoring them. “There’s a lot of talent here and I believe that if we promote tennis from primary school level, we will be reaping positive results in the next few years. Today we’ve managed to visit a few primary schools like King George, Mthombowesizwe and Josiah Chinamano in a bid to ensure that we do this as a collective,” said Madzimbamuto. She challenged parents to be at the forefront of supporting their kids as this will make it easier for well wishers to assist. “It’s painful to see that a kid isn’t getting enough support from his/her parents. Parents and teachers alike must play a huge part in balancing the kid’s schedule of academics and playing sport because at the end of the day they need support from adults to stay motivated and dedicated enough,” Madzimbamuto said. One of the Swiss coaches Frau Michelle Aslaksen, who played doubles with Madzimbamuto in Switzerland, was moved by the talent she witnessed on her first day in Bulawayo. “It is no secret that these kids are talented, but they need a qualified fitness trainer to gain some sort of flexibility and fitness. I’m happy to finally see Martin Nyoni, the boy I started sponsoring in the last two years and I’m happy to say that if he stays focused, he will become a gem. “It is my first time to visit Africa and I’m glad that my friend brought me here to impart some of the skills because there’s tennis coaching in the Swiss education system. Fadzi’s idea of coming up with this club is a good one and it needs financial support to make it a permanent thing that will go on for years to come,” said Aslaksen.— @DecoDecent2