The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, in Conakry, Guinea
Horoya 2-0 FC Platinum FC Platinum literally bowed out of the 2018/19 edition of the Total Caf Champions League quarter-finals race when they fell to two second half goals by hosts Horoya at the Stade de 28 Septembre in Conakry, Guinea, last night. Needing nothing short of victory to stand a realistic chance of progressing to the knockout stages after fellow Southern African side Orlando Pirates fell 2-0 to defending champions Esperance in Tunisia earlier in the day, Pure Platinum Play found themselves with a mountain to club 10 minutes into the second half after stocky forward Ocansey Mandela propelled the hosts ahead with an assist from Yakubu Hudu. Hudu was to torment the Zimbabwean champions 20 minutes later with Horoya’s second goal and by then, it was all over for the visitors. FC Platinum employed a 3-5-2 tactical approach to the game that saw William Stima, Gift Bello and Lawrence Mhlanga forming a three-man defence, while Elvis Moyo, Farai Madhananga, Never Tigere, Rahman Kutsanzira and Charles Sibanda crowded the midfield. Cameroon import Albert Eonde led the strike force. It all seemed to be going according to plan as they matched Horoya pound for pound with only goals eluding the visitors despite having five shots, with three on target. The match went into the breather with the two sides deadlocked and when the second half resumed, it was still FC Platinum who showed intent of breaking the deadlock with star midfielder Kelvin Madzongwe letting loose his trademark pile driver in the 50th minute, which, however, was parried out for a corner. Just 10 minutes later, it was the turn of Never Tigere to see his attempt saved by goalkeeper Khadim Ndiaye. With the defeat, coach Norman Mapeza and his technical bench are yet to see their soldiers scoring a goal in the four group matches they have played and now need more than a miracle in their last two games against Orlando Pirates in Soweto and Esperance at home. FC Platinum are expected back home tomorrow. Teams Horoya: Khadim Ndiaye, Abou Mangue, Mohammed Folana, Yakubu Hudu, Seyebi Baffour, Brefo Mensah (Sekou Keita 56th min), Abdoulaye Camara, Boniface Haba, Bolaji Sakin (Mohamed Wonkoye 46th min) , Ocansey Mandela (Patrick Razak 82nd min). FC Platinum: Petros Mhari, William Stima, Gift Bello, Lawrence Mhlanga, Elvis Moyo, Farai Madhananga, Kelvin Madzongwe, Never Tigere, Rahman Kutsanzira (Godknows Murwira 76th min), Charles Sibanda, Albert Eonde (Lameck Nhamo 88th min) Caf Champions League Group B P W D L F A Pts
Esperance 4 2 2 0 5 1 8
Horoya 4 2 1 1 3 3 7
Orlando Pirates 4 1 2 1 3 2 5
FC Platinum 4 0 1 3 0 5 1