The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Korfball Association has accused the country’s supreme sports body, the Sports and Recreation Commission, of stifling its chances of going to the World Cup finals which are slated for South Africa in August this year. The ZKA is accusing one of the Commission’s directors of acting in bad faith by claiming to the corporate world that the association was not a registered sports organisation hence they must not be given any financial aid. This is despite the fact that ZKA is in possession of a certificate of registration from the SRC. “Things are very difficult for us because there are people in the SRC who are closing doors for us whenever we appeal for financial assistance from the corporate world by claiming we are not a registered sports organisation. We have now since taken up the matter with the government through the relevant bodies,” said ZKA president Tarirai Chadebha. He said they needed $112 000 in total to send a delegation of 30 to the finals adding that 4 150 was needed before the end of the month so as to show commitment that they will be in South Africa. “We hosted the qualifiers as a country and for us now to turn around and say we won’t be able to participate will seriously dent the image of the association and indeed the country because the international federation will fine us heavily on top of other sanctions,” said Chadebha. Chief executive officer of ZKA, former footballer More Moyo, said his association will put the blame squarely on the SRC if they fail to participate at the World Cup. “Dear Honourable, we also need assistance as Korfball. We qualified for the World Cup but now we are failing to raise $4 800 confirmation and participation fees. If we do not attend we will blame it on the SRC,” wrote Moyo as he responded to a Twitter post by the Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Kirsty Coventry. Efforts to get a comment from the SRC director general Prince Mupaziriho were in vain yesterday. Korfball is a ball sport, with similarities to netball and basketball. It is played by two teams of eight players with four females and four males in each team or with eight players in each team. The objective is to throw a ball into a bottomless basket that is mounted on a 3.5 m high pole.