The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE sponsorless Zimbabwe Netball Association (Zina) has resumed its feud with the heavily-funded Rainbow Amateur Netball League (Ranl) by writing threatening letters to principals of teams who are participating in the breakaway league. Ranl enjoys a $250 000 sponsorship from Glow Petroleum while Zina, whose leadership has failed to even get an office despite that being a requirement in terms of good corporate governance tenets, has no corporate backing with its prize moneys coming from what clubs would have contributed as affiliation fees. Last year, Ranl, in its inaugural year, enjoyed a successful season that culminated in End of Year awards at a top hotel in Harare where various prizes of as much as $20 000 were given to deserving teams. Despite the Sports and Recreation Commission writing to both parties to find common ground for the good of the game and the girl-child, Zina has persistently refused to play ball and this week, it’s secretary general Barbra Rice dispatched letters to various principals of Ranl clubs threatening that players who partake in Ranl organised leagues won’t be eligible for selection into the national team. Zimbabwe qualified for its maiden World Cup finals that are set for Liverpool, England in four months time. “The Zimbabwe Netball Association once again writes to advise and appeal to you that the Rainbow Amateur Netball League is unsanctioned and unregistered by Zina, Sports and Recreation Commission and Ministry of Sports. Zina therefore requests you not to participate in any activities initiated by this league,” reads one of the letters written by Rice to the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services. “Players from this league are not eligible to participate in any national team duties. Zina is extending its invitation to your club for the 2019 league and activities. Please be advised that it’s in the interest of the sport to comply,” wrote Rice. However, some players who spoke to this publication said they would not allow emotional blackmail and the impending Liverpool trip to blur them from the bigger picture by partaking in a Zina-run league. “England is not heaven, if they think we will be enticed by a mere ticket to another part of the world then they are mistaken, for long we have been part of Zina yet getting nothing out of our sweat and now that we are at least getting a few cents someone wants to throw spanners in the works, that will and shall never happen,” declared one player. Others appealed to the SRC director general Prince Mupazviriho to help bring sanity to the impasse so that the girl-child won’t be a victim of power hungry people. “Right now we should be concerned about preparations for the World Cup finals but someone is busy with petty fights, we appeal to relevant authorities to solve this madness and let the game and indeed girl-child be the winner. For long these Zina people have been personally enriching themselves at the expense of players, todya kukwira ndege here, Ranl has empowered us together with Glow Petroleum and someone wants to drag us back to slavery, we say no to that,” fumed another player.