The Chronicle Twitter
Response to “First Lady lines up community projects”
Our First Lady has a great vision. Women need to come together and help create an environment that is safe for everyone especially children. — @Chamunorwa. Website
Responses to “ED back from AU summit on a high”
Thank you for setting the record straight on France 24 on issues concerning the recently MDC Alliance NGOs funded demonstration. That was just pure brilliance which left the news anchor awestruck and confused based on the lies which they were been fed, well done. — Eish. MDC Alliance must be feeling too frustrated, seeing Sadc and AU continuing to support the Zimbabwean government and people’s fight against satanic Western sanctions. This African solidarity in support of Zimbabwe should teach Western stooges that they will continue to stink as sell out political outfits. We need a patriotic opposition in Zimbabwe. An opposition that will criticise government to strengthen our democracy, not support sanctions that are inimical to our national economic interests. Biti and Chamisa must now stop their futile wild goose chase. Hoping to have the West install MDC-Alliance to govern our country unconstitutionally is just being politically insane. As people who went through the armed struggle, we will face this satanic challenge squarely, with the valour and patriotic zeal, which is the hallmark of Zanu-PF. Nehanda forbid satanic forces! — Cde Mzvinavhu(Prof). It seems Sadc is in solidarity with Zimbabwe so the ball is in our court to dialogue and move our country forward in solidarity with each other. — Gakangoma77. Responses to “Govt trashes Biti currency claims”
The problem with the opposition politician Biti is that he is failing to understand that he is not politically relevant in Zimbabwe. Waiting for the next elections appears too painful for his MDC Alliance. There is no other way, but to wait until 2023. Trying to spread rumours that are aimed at causing panic in Zimbabwe, is a weapon that the opposition will try to use. Having failed to use violence to dethrone our elected government, MDC-A is now clutching at straws. — Tendai. This only shows how desperate the MDC Alliance is in trying to get involved in day-to-day activities of running the country after failing to upstage the Government through the latest round of uprisings, shame on you Biti. — Eliah.