The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE Polocrosse Association of Zimbabwe is looking for funds to send the national team to the Polocrosse World Cup in Australia where eight nations will battle for world supremacy in the sport in April. Zimbabwe will battle against Australia, New Zealand, United States of America, United Kingdom, Ireland, Zambia and defending champions South Africa in the world jamboree which is tentatively set for April 22-28. According to the association’s Facebook post, the national squad needs $4 000 to send the eight-member squad to Australia for the 80th edition of the tournament that will be held in Adina, Queensland. Well wishers have been asked to forward their donations via Ecocash number 0779365432 or through Steward Bank Account number 1005881858. Meanwhile, ahead of the World Cup finals, the Senior Polocrosse team will play against Ireland in the City Of Kings and Queens from February 22-24 as they prepare for the major tournament. Ireland will be making their fifth appearance at the World Cup event with their best finish being in 2003 and 2007 when they finished sixth. In the Polocrosse World rankings, Zimbabwe are ranked sixth whilst Ireland are on position eight. They will also be a captain’s cup alongside the test in Bulawayo. Ireland have played a number of tests in preparation for the World Cup. In June they played in the UK Open squad and after their test game with Zimbabwe, Ireland will head to the USA where they will play a number of matches next month. The Zimbabwe Polocrosse World Cup team is made up of Graham Keith, Sophie Sargeant, Suzanne Sargent, Kirsten Swan, Danie Swan, Paula Sparrow, Andrew Baker and Ross Shand. Polocrosse is a team sport that is a combination of polo and lacrosse. It is played outside, on a field (the pitch), on horseback. Each rider uses a cane or fibreglass stick to which is attached a racquet head with a loose, thread net in which the ball is carried. The ball is made of sponge rubber and is approximately four inches across. The objective is to score goals by throwing the ball between the opposing team’s goal posts.