The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
THE Minister of Health and Child Care, Dr Obadiah Moyo, has urged beverages companies to help Government raise awareness about drug abuse and assist in establishing rehabilitation facilities for drug abuse victims. Speaking in a video recording to be played on televisions in public hospitals waiting rooms, Dr Moyo said since excessive alcohol consumption is one of the causes of drug abuse-related diseases, concerned companies should assist in building rehabilitation clinics. “The rate of drug abuse in Zimbabwe is worrisome and excessive alcohol consumption is a contributing factor. We call upon alcohol producing companies to join the nation in fighting drug abuse. For example Delta, we expect you to help in building clinics that can provide rehabilitation services to drug abuse victims,” he said. Dr Moyo said the companies should be the ones conducting drug abuse awareness campaigns. He urged people to control consumption of alcohol as it is harmful to health. “We want to see alcohol producing companies at the forefront of raising awareness on the effects of the drugs they manufacture. We cannot close Delta or ban use of alcohol but we want a situation where consumers are aware of the effects of its consumption. “As l send this message to these companies, l am calling upon people to reduce alcohol and drug consumption because they come with harmful effects to our health,” Dr Moyo said. In Bulawayo, police say they are also concerned about drug abuse at schools. Last month, Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango said teachers should play a leading role in fighting substance abuse by reporting all suspected cases. Selling of drugs at the door steps of schools is reportedly resulting in pupils smuggling the substance into classrooms and behaving in a wayward manner. Chief Insp Simango said drugs of concern include broncleer, popularly known as bronco, dagga and cakes laced with drugs which have previously been confiscated during the arrest of drug peddlers. —@tamary98