The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
THE Zimbabwe School Examinations Council has said parents should clear school fees arrears to collect Ordinary Level examinations results as the physical slips are the only official documents for Advanced Level or tertiary institutions placement. The examination board launched an online portal which provides a read-only record of those who sat for the November Ordinary Level examinations. Some parents and guardians have reportedly chosen not to clear school fees arrears as they have already accessed their children’s results online. Zimsec spokesperson Ms Nicky Dlamini said the online platform is for viewing only but candidates cannot print out the results. “Results on the portal are in view only mode, therefore, they cannot be printed. The results slip which can only be collected by the candidates from their respective examination centres is the official document of Zimsec results,” she said. Ms Dlamini said the physical slip remains an official document which is a pre-requisite for application to get Advanced Level or tertiary institutions places. Meanwhile, parents and pupils have hailed Zimsec for the online portal saying it is cost effective, convenient and fast. Mrs Nothando Dube said accessing results online discourages pupils who hid their results or delayed collecting claiming that they lost textbooks. “Children can play games. Two years back my son took a month to go and collect his results because he feared that he had failed. He said he lost textbooks and when we gave him the money he claimed that he could not find the books. When he collected we realised he passed but now we were under pressure to prepare for his Advanced Level because it was too late. This time no negotiations, we just open the portal,” she said. Samantha Moyo, who sat for her exams at Matopo High School, said the portal allowed her to access results from the comfort of her Harare home. “With the recent bus fare hikes, our parents were going to struggle to raise at least $100 for transport money just for me to collect a result slip. That money can now be used to buy my stationery since I have passed and I am preparing for my Advanced Level. I will travel to school to get the slip and get a recommendation letter so that l can go and apply at another school,” she said. — @tamary98