The Chronicle Bridget Moyo, Midlands Reporter
GWERU-based property developer, Mashmo Land Developers, has embarked on a project to build 57 exclusive cluster homes, which will be secured within a walled and gated complex. The property developer is developing the houses in Delsford along Gweru-Zvishavane Road and has taken the same concept to Zvishavane town. In an interview, Mashmo chief executive officer, Mr Robson Vunganai, said by the end of the year, most cluster houses will be ready for occupation. “Our Eastdale cluster houses are situated in Gweru in Delsford area. We are building 57 units, which will be secured within a walled and gated complex that has a 24-hour guard service. These are exclusive houses for the clientele that demands privacy,” he said. Mr Vunganai said each stand would be 500 square metres in extent of which 150 square metres will be reserved for gardening and parking space. He said once construction has been completed, each house will have Marley roof tiles, floor tiles, fitted with four plate stove, kitchen cupboards, wardrobes in all bedrooms and a 150-litre solar geyser. “The houses are six roomed consisting of three bedrooms, of which the main bedroom has an en-suite. The house costs a total of $ 74 750 and we have leading banks that are offering loans to willing clients. The period of settling of the total cost goes up to 10 years depending on an individual client,” said Mr Vunganai. He said that his company was also planning to build a shopping mall to service the new residents. “The houses are still under construction. Clients can move into their home as soon as construction is complete, although title deeds of the property will be surrendered upon full payment for the house,” he said. Last year Mashmo partnered with the National Building Society (NBS) in the provision of houses in the Midlands capital. Under the arrangement NBS would extend loans to home seekers while Mashmo would build houses with the main thrust being the diaspora market.