The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE aftermath of last week’s brief stand-off between Highlanders FC players and the team’s executive resulted in them wasting four training days and forced the technical team to revise its pre-season programme. Bosso were supposed to hold the first-leg of their pre-season training camp in Matobo last week and shift base to the Lowveld this week, but those plans were shelved following the face-off. The team headed back to Matabeleland South yesterday. Seventeen players deserted camp on Tuesday evening last week, demanding that the club pays them outstanding allowances from the 2018 season. Speaking after the team’s departure yesterday following the weekend break, Highlanders chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube said the team would shift base to another secluded area midweek. Dube could not be drawn into divulging where the team would go to after their Matabeleland South junket. Before the players went on strike last week, Bosso had planned to have the squad go through vigorous physical training in Matobo and then move to train in the simmering heat of the Lowveld. “The team has already left for Matabeleland South to complete the physical exercise. Towards the end of the week, the squad will move to another base where they will then start kicking the ball,” said Dube. Highlanders have been keeping their followers updated on the team’s physical training by posting videos of the players running up and down the hills in Matobo on their social media platform. In one of the videos, reigning Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Goalkeeper of the Year Ariel Sibanda is seen leading sweat soaked players climbing a steep ascent. Players in camp include goalkeeper Sibanda, central defenders Peter Muduhwa, Tendai Ndlovu and Charlton Siamalonga, right-back McClive Phiri, left-back Mbongeni Ndlovu, defender Bukhosi Ncube, Vincent Moyo and national Under-20 captain Andrew Mbeba. Midfielders; Denzel Khumalo, Ray Lunga, Brian Banda, Godfrey Makaruse, Tinashe Makanda, Ben Musaka and Munyaradzi Chitambwe are also going through the paces at the camp. It is not clear whether defensive midfielder Adrian Silla, who refused to travel last week, joined the rest of the squad yesterday. New signings, goalkeeper Alfred Chiname and Wellington Muuya, midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku, winger Cleopas Kapupurika, utility player Mbekezeli Sibanda, striker Russell Chifura and club returnee Prince Dube complete the training camp. There are also some players from the development side Bosso 90 who are also camped with the senior players. — @ZililoR