The Chronicle Business Reporter GIANT hospitality concern Rainbow Tourism Group (RTG) continues to guide the industry in the development and support of smaller players in the industry through its virtual platform and GatewayStream mobile and Internet application. The RTG Virtual was launched in 2014, while GatewayStream was launched in February 2018. RTG Virtual is a partnership platform between the hospitality group and selected hotels, lodges and tourism activity companies in Zimbabwe. In a statement, the Group’s Corporate Communications and Innovations Manager, Mrs Pride Khumbula, said the RTG Virtual had partnered with smaller hotels and lodges in a manner that develops their business capabilities and access to markets. “This innovative “one stop shop” allows RTG to process bookings on behalf of approved local partners. The group launched the industry first integrated mobile application, the RTG Gateway, in February 2018,” she said. Now rebranded to GatewayStream, Mrs Khumbula said the App enables users to access, book and pay for products and services ranging from the group’s own hospitality products, which include holiday packages, meals and transfers to third party products and services. The company’s RTG virtual manager, Mr Tinashe Kuvheya, was quoted as saying: “We have uploaded all our RTG Virtual partners onto the App, of which we are using Matabeleland as our pilot project. To date we have 61 properties representing over 700 rooms in Bulawayo on the Virtual platform. Our priority is to open up markets for tourism in Zimbabwe using our App.” The group participates in the major annual trade shows including but not limited to the International Travel Bureaux held in Berlin, Germany, World Travel Market (WTM) in London, United Kingdom, China International Travel Market and closer to home the Indaba Expo in Durban and WTM Africa in Cape Town. In addition, RTG has representatives in the major source markets-Germany, United States of America, United Kingdom and China who sell and market RTG and its Virtual partners. It is believed that the extensive global market reach helps to position the smaller players in these markets and drives much needed foreign business into their properties at no cost to the partners. The hotel group said at national level, RTG Virtual complements the efforts of the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry together with the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority in the promotion of domestic tourism. Mavuna Lodge owner Mrs Nobuhle Ndlovu was also quoted saying: “Being a new entrant in the hospitality industry, it is extremely exciting to access and partner with RTG on the RTG Virtual platform and it has an enabling effect of growing our business. “RTG is a tried and trusted brand name in the market place and our tagging on this brand will ensure that we maintain a high standard of hospitality which under normal circumstances we would not have been able to follow through.”