The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
A KEZI-based prison officer has been arrested for allegedly stealing electrical gadgets and a chicken belonging to police officers at Kezi Police Station. Welcome Ncube (28) was not asked to plead when he appeared briefly before Gwanda magistrate, Miss Lerato Nyathi, facing two counts of unlawful entry and theft and one count of stocktheft. He was remanded out of custody to March 5 on $100 bail. Prosecuting, Mr Takunda Mafudze said Ncube unlawfully gained entry into houses of three cops who stay at the Kezi ZRP camp in January and February. “Antony Mwenya who is stationed at Kezi Police Station left his house with the door unlocked and windows open on 14 January and went to Manyane Police Base to carry out police duties. On a date unknown but from 14 January to 20 January in the evening, Ncube went to Mwenya’s house and gained entry through the unlocked door. “He stole a 32 inch Telefunken television set valued at $500 and went away unnoticed. Ncube hid the television in a bushy area near TelOne offices in Kezi. The complainant realised that his television was missing on 20 January after he returned from work and made a report to the police. The television was found in the bush on the same day by a security guard who then informed the police,” he said. Mr Mafudze said on February 2, Ncube went to Mr Mncedisi Dube’s house at ZRP Kezi residential camp between 8PM and 10PM and gained entry through an unlocked door. He allegedly stole an HP laptop and its charger all valued at $500 and went away unnoticed. Mr Mafudze said Dube noticed that his valuables were missing on the same day at around 10PM when he had knocked off from work and reported the matter to the police. “Ncube further went to the house of Pretty Mandidzinga who also stays at the ZRP Kezi camp and took one broiler chicken from her fowl run and went away unnoticed. She noticed the offence on the following morning and reported to the police. Police attended the scene and saw shoe prints which led them to Ncube’s house. “The police searched Ncube’s house and recovered the stolen HP laptop and its charger while the chicken had already been slaughtered leading to his arrest,” he said. —@DubeMatutu