The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
ZIFA Southern Region has climbed down from its earlier threat of blocking teams that haven’t paid affiliation fees from attending Saturday’s annual general meeting after only four of 17 clubs made a commitment to compete in the Division One league. Bulawayo City, who are making a return to the unfashionable league after being relegated from the Premiership last season, ZPC Hwange, Victoria Falls’ Mosi Rovers and newbies Binga United are the only clubs that have paid the affiliation fees partially or in full. Affiliation fees for newly promoted clubs are $2 500, while old teams, including those that were relegated from the Premiership, have to pay $2 000. This excludes players and technical team registration fees. The registration for each player is $20, meaning $500 for a squad of 25 players and $250 for five technical team members. Zifa Southern Region postponed its annual general meeting last Saturday by a week to give clubs time to affiliate with the league. Spokesperson for the Zifa Southern Region board Mehluli Thebe said: “According to our present records, only four teams have paid their affiliation fees and others are yet to pay. It’s our hope that by the time we go for the annual general meeting, most of the clubs would have met their commitments. Also note that there are about eight teams that owe the region affiliation fees and other monies from last year. We want clubs to deliberate and come up with the way forward with regards to those that are owing. For that reason, we will not be barring any club from attending the meeting.” Ajax Hotspurs and Arenel from Bulawayo were promoted to the First Division, while Nengasha Stars and Binga Pirates come from Zifa Matabeleland North Division Two. Zim Leopards is the only club that officially surrendered its franchise to the Zifa Southern Region.
The other teams expected to make up the Southern Region Division One Soccer League are ex-Premiership Tsholotsho, Talen Vision, coalminers Makomo, army sides Indlovu Iyanyathela and Moto Moto, CIWU, Bosso 90, Casmyn, Mainline FC of Plumtree and Toronto from Pumula East. – @ZililoR.