The Chronicle Elita Chikwati, Harare Bureau
TEACHERS who have not been reporting for duty will suffer salary deductions on the basis of the “No Work, No pay” principle, the Public Service Commission (PSC) warned yesterday. The warning came after a realisation that some teachers were not reporting for duty. This follows announcements of an illegal job action by the Zimbabwe Teachers’ Association (Zimta) and the Progressive Teachers’ Union of Zimbabwe (PTUZ). In a statement yesterday, Public Service Commission (PSC) chairman, Dr Vincent Hungwe said discussions between Government and the Apex Council on the improvement of conditions of service for civil servants were continuing in the context of the National Joint Negotiating Council. He said the Apex Council had not declared a strike nor declared a deadlock in the negotiations. “The commission has been made aware of isolated cases of abscondment by a minority of teachers at specific schools across some districts and provinces of the country. “Accordingly and in keeping with the applicable regulations, the comission advises members that unauthorised non-attendance at workstations will result in corresponding deductions from the salaries of the offending individuals on the basis of the principle “No Work, No pay,” he said. “Incidents in any form of intimidation or coercion to withdraw labour should be reported to law enforcement authorities.” Dr Hungwe applauded civil servants who had continued to report for work. “The commission is pleased to note that civil servants in all categories continue to report at their workstations and continue to work in the interest of the public who are entitled to their uninterrupted service. “The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education and the PSC inspectorate agency will continue to monitor attendance and take action to contain instances of abscondment in all schools,” he said. Government’s focus is on availing non-monetary benefits to its workers to enhance their livelihoods. In this regard, efforts are being channelled towards the all-round improvement of standards of living with particular focus on decent housing, quality health, productive education and a sustainable transport system, among many other demands. On Monday Government committed itself to operationalising non-monetary incentives and economic initiatives for teachers. This development saw majority of their representative unions calling off a strike that was set to begin on Tuesday. Non-monetary incentives and other hardship-alleviating initiatives are at the centre of President Mnangagwa’s raft of measures to lessen the burden on Government workers in light of austerity measures being undertaken to achieve a long-term economic turnaround.