The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
MEMBERS of the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC) have resigned and a new Commission will soon be constituted after President Emmerson Mnangagwa accepted their resignations. In a statement yesterday, the Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet, Dr Misheck Sibanda, said ZACC chairperson Dr Job Whabira and the rest of the commissioners’ resignations were with effect from yesterday. Other members of the ZACC commission are Dr Nanette Silukhuni, who was the deputy chairperson, Mr Goodson Nguni, Mrs Christine Fundira, Mr Denford Chirindo, Ms Cathy Muchechetere, Ms Farai Mashonganyika and Mr Boyana Ndou. The resignation paves the way for the President to appoint new commissioners in line with the country’s constitution. “The Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet advises the nation that President Mnangagwa has accepted the resignation of the chairman of ZACC, Dr Whabira with effect from January 31, 2019. Furthermore, His Excellency accepts the resignation of the rest of the ZACC commissioners with effect from January 31, 2019. All the commissioners have gone on leave pending the finalisation of their terminal benefits,” said Dr Sibanda. He said President Mnangagwa was grateful to Dr Whabira and the other commissioners for the sacrifice and efforts they rendered during their tenure. “President Mnangagwa extends his gratitude to Dr Whabira and the commissioners for the sacrifice and efforts they rendered to the country in working towards the elimination of the scourge of corruption, which threatens to tear apart the very fabric and ethos of our society. “The President wishes all of them well in their new endeavours,” said Dr Sibanda. He said in the meantime President Mnangagwa will shortly appoint the new chairman in terms of section 254 (1a) of the constitution of Zimbabwe (No. 20). Dr Sibanda said the President would also request for nominees from Parliament’s Committee on Standing Rules and Orders (SROC), in terms of section 254 (2) of the Constitution towards the appointment of the rest of the commissioners. The outgoing ZACC commissioners were appointed by former President Robert Mugabe in February 2016 in line with the country’s Constitution. Their three year tenure saw several high-profile people being arrested and hauled before the courts. Of the long list only former Energy and Power Development Minister Samuel Undenge was convicted and jailed two and half years. He was convicted of criminal abuse of office after he handpicked a public relations company fronted by former Highfield legislator, Psychology Maziwisa and broadcaster Oscar Pambuka for the Zimbabwe Power Company (ZPC) without going to tender. Undenge has since appealed against both conviction and sentence. He is out on bail pending appeal. Maziwisa and Pambuka are also out on bail pending appeal following their conviction. They were sentenced to three and half years in jail for duping ZPC of over $12 000. Other high-profile figures arrested for corruption under the stewardship of Dr Whabira include former Cabinet Ministers, Ignatius Chombo, Saviour Kasukuwere, Supa Mandiwanzira and Walter Chidhakwa. University of Zimbabwe vice-chancellor Professor Levi Nyagura, former Mines and Mining Development Secretary Prof Francis Gudyanga, Zesa chief executive, Josh Chifamba were also arrested. They are all facing similar charges of criminal abuse of office. Also nabbed were businessmen Wicknell Chivayo and Genius Kadungure. Former First Lady Grace Mugabe’s sister Junior Shuvai Gumbochuma was arrested as well. President Mnangagwa is on record as saying corruption is one of the main impediments to the country’s economic growth. The President has since declared zero tolerance to graft. – @pamelashumba1