The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
Chronicle has scooped the Best Road Safety Media House of the Year Award in the Traffic Safety Council of Zimbabwe (TSCZ), Journalistic Awards, with some of its reporters also winning in various categories. This comes as the media fraternity has been challenged to increase its reportage on road traffic safety to reduce accidents. TSCZ held its 6th Annual Road Safety Journalistic Awards for 2018 on Friday at a Harare hotel. Chronicle came first in the print media category while ZiFM won in the broadcasting sector. The publication had five of its journalists nominated in different categories. TSCZ spokesperson Mr Tatenda Chinoda said the 2018 annual journalistic awards had 88 entrants in different categories. From the 88 contestants, Mr Chinoda said only 22 made it to the final list of nominees. Chronicle’s cartoonist, Wellington Musapenda scooped the Best Cartoonist award for his captivating cartoons on the need for members of the public and motorists to be responsible on the roads. Zimpapers Bulawayo branch chief photographer, Eliah Saushoma, scooped the Best Road Safety Photojournalist of the Year Award, for a picture that was featured in Sunday News. Nkosizile Ndlovu was the first runner up while Fortune Muzarabani got a consolation prize in the same category. For the Best Print Media Reporter of the Year, B Metro senior reporter Gibson Mhaka was the first runner up while Nqobile Tshili was the second runner up. Chronicle editor Innocent Madonko said the newspaper takes its role of informing and educating the nation on critical issues such as traffic safety seriously. “We are immensely honoured to have been recognised for our efforts in highlighting issues around traffic safety and the need to observe road rules and regulations. As a media house, we take our role of informing and educating the nation on critical issues such as traffic safety seriously. Our journalists have performed extremely well in these awards and we commend their exemplary work. We will continue to shine a light on matters of road safety given the carnage on our roads and attendant loss of precious lives,” he said. In his speech during the awards ceremony, Transport and Infrastructural Development Minister Eng Joel Biggie Matiza who was the guest of honour implored the media to extensively report on road safety issues and inform policy direction. “I would like to appeal to the editorial policies of various media houses to include a space for road safety. This will undoubtedly go a long way in sharpening road safety behaviour of the generality of our road users, thereby cultivating a road safety culture,” said Cde Matiza. “Indeed road safety should be everybody’s responsibility, above all this reporting helps alert responsible authorities on the need to review existing and formulate new road traffic safety laws and policies.” — @nqotshili