The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter
TWO men alleged to be part of rogue protestors who allegedly fatally stoned a police officer during violent demonstrations in Bulawayo were yesterday further remanded in custody pending their application for bail at the High Court. Charles Thomas (54) of Njube suburb and Bernard Sibanda (18) of New Lobengula appeared before Bulawayo magistrate Mr Tinashe Tashaya facing a murder charge in connection with the death of Constable Alexio Maune (32). They allegedly stoned Maune while he was on duty in Njube suburb. They were remanded in custody to February 18. Thomas and Sibanda, through their lawyer Mr Dumisani Dube of Mathonsi Ncube Law Chambers, have filed an application for bail pending trial at the High Court. The date for the bail hearing is yet to be set. In their bail statement, the accused persons said they were entitled to their liberty. They argued that they have not shown any risk of endangering the public if released on bail. They also stated that they were not likely to abscond if granted bail. Sibanda said he was a student who had no relationship with Thomas. He said he was arrested as a result of a dragnet arrest by police officers who were conducting a door-to-door search in New Lobengula. They both argued that they were not at the scene of the crime on that particular day. Mr Dube said his clients have a fundamental right to admission to bail pending trial, arguing that there were no compelling reasons justifying their continued detention. “In the circumstances, the applicants pray that they are admitted to bail pending trial subject to conditions that they pay $100 bail each, continue residing at their given addresses, not interfere with State witnesses and report twice a week at Bulawayo Central Police Station until the matter is finalised,” he said. The State opposed bail, arguing that due to the seriousness of the alleged offence, the accused persons were likely to abscond. Maune, who was based at Entumbane Police Station, died the following day on admission to the United Bulawayo Hospitals after being left for dead by violent protestors. The late cop was one of a number of people who lost their lives during the protests that saw shops being looted and roads being barricaded. Prosecuting, Mr Mufaro Mageza said on January 14, Thomas and Sibanda were among a group of protestors who were unleashing violence, looting shops and barricading main roads with stones, when they spotted Maune while on duty in police uniform. They confronted the now-deceased and started attacking him. The court heard that Maune fled and sought refuge behind a house in Njube. Sibanda picked up a stone and struck Maune on the head before Thomas and other protestors who are still at large apprehended him. The accused proceeded with their public violence spree and Maune was taken to UBH where he succumbed to the injuries the following day—@mashnets.