The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Reporter
PRESIDENT Mnangagwa has retired four senior military officers and reassigned them to diplomatic service. The quartet will be appointed to diplomatic posts in line with the Government’s critical global engagement and re-engagement strategy. In a statement yesterday, Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Dr Misheck Sibanda said Major Generals Martin Chedondo, Douglas Nyikayaramba, Anselem N Sanyatwe and Air Vice Marshal Shebba Shumbayawonda are set to join the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Trade pending finalisation of diplomatic consultations. “The Chief Secretary to the President and Cabinet Dr MJM Sibanda today announced the decision by his Excellency the President Cde Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa to retire and reassign senior military officers to the diplomatic service in line with the Government critical global engagement and re-engagement strategy,” reads part of his statement. Dr Sibanda said the Government will release accreditation details for each of the four senior officers once various bilateral consultations are concluded. “His Excellency the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces thanks the four officers for serving their country with honour and dedication in the Defence Forces, and wish them successful careers in the Diplomatic Service,” he said. President Mnangagwa’s re-engagement efforts seek to reposition the country back into the family of nations and grow the economy in line with Vision 2030. Economic development is at the centre of the Second Republic as evidenced by multi-billion dollar investment commitments which lay the ground for the creation of an upper middle income economy by 2030. Key anchors of the President Mnangagwa’s vision include a policy of economic diplomacy, international re-engagement as well as domestic policies tackling underdevelopment, marginalisation, poverty and corruption. Zimbabwe recently took part in the 32nd Ordinary Session of the African Union. The travelling contingent, led by President Mnangagwa, took the opportunity to continue with the country’s re-engagement agenda. Last month, the President also led a delegation of senior officials on an engagement drive in Eurasia during which he visited Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Belarus. Since assuming leadership in November 2017, the President has pursued a policy of re-engagement whereby Zimbabwe consolidates its existing friendships, reconnect with other countries and seek out new partnerships. — @mashnets