The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter
A UNITED Kingdom-based daily newspaper, Yorkshire Evening Post, has listed Victoria Falls as one of the world’s top must-visit holiday destinations in 2019. The publication said Victoria Falls is a great holiday destination for those that seek lazing in the sun and individuals that are thrill-seekers. “Make Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe top of your holiday list in 2019. Whether you are a thrill-seeker or a sun-seeker, Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe will hit the right spot with everyone,” reads part of the publication. The publication recommended tourists to visit Africa Albida’s five-star boutique at Victoria Falls Safari Club overlooking the Zambezi National Park. The publication said the place is for holiday-goers who prefer to relax and is an ideal location for exciting activities which include helicopter trips above Victoria Falls or walks with lions. “The food is also top notch — everything from the fruit platter at breakfast to the dainty cakes and sandwiches for afternoon tea and the roast eland loin for evening dinner. It was all well cooked, plentiful and delicious,” said the publication. “Another great way to watch the sunset is to take a cruise down the Zambezi River on the Zambezi Explorer. Relax with a beer or a cocktail, along with some tasty nibbles such as crocodile sliders, and keep your eyes peeled for the animals. We spotted a yawning pod of hippos, crocodile and a pair of — very distant — zebras.” Yorkshire Evening Post said a trip to Zimbabwe would not be complete without visiting the magnificent Victoria Falls. One of the world’s leading geographic magazines, The National Geographic Traveller, has also named Zimbabwe as one of the 19 must-see tourism destinations in the world ranking putting the country on 9th position. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority has announced that tourist arrivals have increased by four percent to 1,8 million in the nine months to September 2018 from 1,7 million in the corresponding period in 2017. This was on the back of positive perception from the international community. — @queentyauruszw