The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
BULAWAYO commuter omnibus operators were yesterday forced to lower kombi fares following the introduction of Zupco buses to more routes in the western suburbs. A total of 77 buses started plying different routes yesterday, a move that saw arrogant kombi operators who were charging $1,50 for a trip to the Central Business District, reducing it to a $1 which is also being charged by bus operators. The buses are charging $1 except for the Cowdray Park route which is pegged at $1,50 a trip. The Chronicle yesterday went around the city and witnessed buses picking and dropping off passengers in the western suburbs, providing stiff competition to the kombi operators. In an interview, acting Zupco chief executive officer Mr Evaristo Madangwa said they were looking forward to availing more buses in Bulawayo. “We rolled out buses yesterday and we are working on receiving more buses that we will be deploying going forward. Our target was 140 buses for Bulawayo so we are gradually building capacity to reach that number,” he said. Mr Madangwa said measures would be put in place to ensure that the buses are reliable and adhere to specific timetables and routes. Bulawayo United Public Transport Association (BUPTA) finance director Mr Keeper Ndlovu said they were unfazed by the introduction of buses as competition is good for any business. “It’s normal, one thing about competition, it’s healthy. It brings the best out of people so kuzasetshenzwa. Zupco will pull up their socks and we will also pull up our socks because of them. The person who benefits is the passenger as they will get the best service,” said Mr Ndlovu. Asked to comment on the reduction of fares as a result of the introduction of buses, he said: “There is what is called market forces at play and when market forces play, you play.” Some kombi drivers and touts who spoke to The Chronicle yesterday said the buses were elbowing them out of business and pleaded with Government to lower the price of fuel. “Today we’ve been parked for over two hours, people are now going for buses. The fuel price is too high for us; we are struggling. The thought of introducing more buses will cripple us,” said one driver. He said they used to realise $50 a day but now they are down to $30 as the bulk of the money goes to fuel. “We don’t have a problem with buses because when we started there were buses and there was competition but now it’s hard to compete because the fuel price had forced us to hike fares,” said another driver. The kombi drivers and touts said they fear losing their jobs.