The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS have kicked off a week-long training camp at a secluded place in Matabeleland South without four players, among them new signing Bukhosi “Zakhu” Sibanda, who is injured. Three other players, believed to be Zambian striker Peter Nyirenda as well as unnamed stars that Highlanders are trying to secure, are expected to join the rest of the squad when they travel for the second-leg of their pre-season training camp next week. Nhlanhla Dube, the Highlanders chief executive officer, is hopeful that by the time the team starts its second-leg of the pre-season camp, they will be having a full squad of 27 players. “The team left for camp on Sunday minus about four players who should be joining them once some paperwork is concluded. I can’t say the names of those that didn’t travel with the squad, but we are working round the clock to make sure that they join the rest of the members. Once we have the full squad in camp, we will then release all names of our squad,” said Dube. “You will note that once all the players are in camp we will have a squad of 27. The technical team deliberately did that so that should there be a need to beef up certain areas or they identify a player who they need there is no problem with slots,” he said. Highlanders are almost done with assembling their squad for the 2019 season with the former Young Warriors’ attacking pair of Sibanda and Prince Dube, who had unfruitful stints in South Africa, keen to revive their careers at Bosso. They have also snapped up former Dynamos winger Cleopas Kapupurika, a direct replacement for Gabriel Nyoni who left the club for Caps United alongside striker Newman Sianchali. Former national Under-20 defensive midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku and utility player Mbekezeli Sibanda, who had a brief stint in Slovakia, are among Bosso’s signings. Bosso also secured the services of ex-Mutare City Rovers goalkeeper Alfred Chiname and are reportedly chasing Bulawayo City goalkeeper Wellington Muuya to give competition to Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Goalkeeper of the Year Ariel Sibanda. Highlanders retained the core members of their 2018 squad, who include the defence quintet of McClive Phiri, Peter Muduhwa, Tendai Ndlovu, national Under-20 captain Andrew Mbeba and Mbongeni Ndlovu. Midfielders Adrian Silla, Brian Banda, Denzel Khumalo and Ben Musaka as well as the attacking pair of Tinashe Makanda and Godfrey Makaruse are in camp. Besides Nyoni and Sianchali, other players that have parted ways with Highlanders are former captain Honest Moyo and midfielder Nigel Makumbe, who has reportedly joined ZPC Kariba. — @ZililoR.