The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
“RADIO in the morning will not be the same”, this is what most Skyz Metro FM listeners are saying after the announcement on Thursday that one of the radio station’s personalities, Babongile Sikhonjwa, will be leaving the station at the end of this month. Sikhonjwa had brought a breath of fresh air on radio with his wit and humour on the Vuka Vuka Breakfast Show. The programme had become the radio station’s flagship show as it covered a lot of topics and even pranked some people. A memorable prank was in 2017 when Sikhonjwa allegedly phoned the South African Home Affairs Department asking for them to return former Studio 263 actress Anne Nhira back home. She was plying her trade in the neighbouring country through cameo roles in soapies. This was during the time that Nhira had successfully got Zodwa Wabantu banned from the Harare International Carnival. The exchange between Sikhonjwa and the supposed Home Affairs official was hilarious. Another unforgettable moment was when Sikhonjwa passed out in the studio in 2017 after celebrating, as did the whole nation, the resignation of former President Mugabe at his bar Red Café until the wee hours of the morning. This led to his suspension for a month. From Thursday when the news of his departure was shared by the radio station, people have been expressing their sadness that Sikhonjwa is leaving. One Thandiwe Tanewe said her mornings will never be the same as she would miss Sikhonjwa’s humour. “Eish my mornings won’t be the same again. Great laughter brought by Babongile was what started my day off and made a huge difference. Vuka Vuka will never be the same. Will miss you mhani.” Others in saying goodbye to Sikhonjwa requested a farewell gig for him in his honour. “Ayi Thixooo!!! I don’t get it, but Skyz Metro FM bengicela lisizame ngomcimbi wokuvalelisa uSk wenziwe emini lisiphe itwo hours zokuthath’ ama selfie lo Sk. Siyacela, thina abanye sesikhala vele (please, may Skyz Metro organise a farewell gig for Sikhonjwa in the afternoon and give us two hours to take selfies with him),” posted Pretty Lue. Thandeka Ncube said it’s always great that people take different paths in life and wished Sikhonjwa all the best. “In life, we all take different paths, but no matter where we go, we take a little bit of each other. All the best in your entertainment business. You’ll truly be missed Sk. Uhleko lwakho especially, kkkkik.” Others such as Bryn Sibanda were grateful that Sikhonjwa and Skyz Metro FM gave airplay to artistes from the city and moulded them to be national stars. “Thank you for setting the bar high from a city that was looked down upon by many people. You’ve brought up many artistes through your stature and innovative ideas. “One of Bulawayo’s icons, long live bro and all the best in all your endeavours. Salute.” During his time at Skyz Metro FM, Sikhonjwa had three presenters he co-hosted the Vuka Vuka Breakfast show with. At first it was Khaya Drastic and the duo made radio interesting. When Khaya Drastic left, Sikhonjwa was paired with Donna Nc and for the better part of last year, they were a great tag team. In this new season, Sikhonjwa was paired with TKP and barley a month after they started their journey, Sikhonjwa is leaving. The prospect of Sikhonjwa leaving saddened TKP yesterday as she was heard sobbing during the show. She said she was emotional as he was leaving her at the beginning of their partnership. She had to take a brief moment to compose herself on radio. The question now remains. Who will take over Sikhonjwa’s Vuka Vuka slot? People like BKay and Mjox are the front runners.