The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter
BULAWAYO’s “biggest dress up event”, the Bulawayo Arts Awards are back for a third edition and will be launched next Friday at the Bulawayo Theatre. The date and venue for the awards ceremony will be unveiled at the launch that is set to begin at 6PM.
Organisers of the award ceremony said they would also announce the new sponsors who they have partnered for this year’s edition. The call for entries as well as naming of categories will also be made there. One of the organisers of the event, Nkululeko Nkala, said: “We’ll be announcing the official date and venue for the awards ceremony as well as unveiling the sponsors for this year’s edition at the launch. We have old ones and new sponsors on board.” Attendance to the launch event, Nkala said, is free, with organisers calling on artistes to attend in their numbers. “The event will have corporates and artists as well as interested audiences. Audiences who want to be part of the BAA launch event should send a message to the numbers we have put on the BAA social media pages to get tickets. “They should, however, bear in mind that the Bulawayo Theatre has limited seats (under 400) so the earlier the better,” said Nkala. He said for the past two editions, they have been constantly working on improving the event as they want it to better with every year. Ever since the awards were launched in 2017, they have played a pivotal role in recognising local talent and have been motivating up-and-coming artistes to work hard and improve their craft. Last year’s edition had a new twist as the organisers introduced a section by the red carpet for fashion police where guests were interrogated about their dressing. This created excitement and upped the city’s dressing as most people attended the event dressed to impress, likely because they were scared of being embarrassed by fashion influencers on the red carpet. This year, the fashion police are likely to be there in full swing with more exciting concepts likely to be added.