The Chronicle Showbiz Reporter
VALENTINE’s Day is around the corner and as has become the norm, most ladies are anticipating gifts from their lovers. The day, celebrated annually on February 14, is a festival of romantic love where many people around the world give cards, letters, flowers or presents to their spouse or partner. But sometimes when this day comes, not everyone will be in a romantic relationship for varying reasons and often, these people tend to feel unloved and left out. They feel left out because of the hype that has been created around this day by materialistic people, florists, retailers, hoteliers, boutiques and restaurants — all who want to cash in on the day. This day has, however, somewhat lost its significance over the years. First of all, it is now being used as a day that men spoil their women yet in actual fact, both lovers should express their love for each other on this day. As a result, it has become unbearable for most men because of the high demands and expectations from their partners. As such, some end up with debts as they go overboard all in a quest to try and make their partner happy as they fear being rejected and being compared to other men. Social media is another big monster when it comes to overrating this day as the posts by some ladies of their lavish gifts from their “baes” make others feel as if their partners are not serious. Some ladies in the workplace, in order to also have something to post on social media, actually buy themselves gifts and flowers and pay someone to deliver the package so that it seems like they were bought by their partner. This package is then delivered to their office/desk in full view of their colleagues in order to get them talking. Treating yourself is always a great idea, but when you do it for the sake of not being left out, then it becomes hurtful and can put you through unnecessary stress. Either way, being single on this day can be so depressing, well, especially if you are a woman. But, trust us on this one, not all that glitters is gold. All those fancy posts on Facebook and Instagram that you will see next Thursday do not mean that those particular people are deeply in love. A lot goes on behind the scenes. Some men are actually told which gifts to buy, where and what time to deliver them. You will also be shocked to learn that the same lady who has been bragging about what her lover bought her is actually unhappy in that relationship, putting you the single one, in a much better position than her. For all you care, she could have been crying as she posted that image which will get you in bed as early as 6PM. For men, being single on this day, it turns out, is actually a blessing as this will mean less stress because no one will be expecting a gift from you or some romantic dinner. Hang in there brother. Not wanting to be among those who will be single and not getting presents on the day, one Zimbabwean lady, Lorraine Guyo – through a short video clip – decided to do the unthinkable and asked men to propose love to her before Valentine’s Day. The video clip made its way on social media and soon spread like a wildfire. Here was a very beautiful lady opening up and asking to be loved, well for that day only perhaps. While some found her act a bit trashy especially after a nude video of someone purported to be her surfaced, she seemed genuine in her plea. As soon as the men got wind of her workplace, the fancy five-star Meikles Hotel in Harare, they started thronging the hotel in their numbers to try their luck. Mission accomplished it seemed as she perhaps would not be single on Valentine’s Day, some thought. Sadly, she ended up in the streets, unemployed as the hotel reportedly sacked her. Lesson learnt there. Local celebrities have been sympathising with her since then saying she is a victim of cyber bullying but sadly, this will not get her job back as she brought herself unnecessary attention. Radio personality MisRed said: “So this is what the Internet does! People don’t care to verify, everyone is more focused on giving “the scoop” and because someone said it, then it must be true right, wrong!” Businessman, socialite and the owner of Nash Paints Tinashe Mutarisi offered to give Lorraine a Valentine’s Day present saying it was a pity that her joke had been taken too seriously by her employer. “I’ll never judge you. I hope you’ll have a lovely Valentine’s Day and thank you very much for putting smiles on our faces with your ‘Ndinyengeiwo’ video. “We all know that was a joke and we appreciate jokes . . . We actually have a Valentine’s present for you.” But in all this, people, including Lorraine, need to understand that being single on Valentine’s Day does not make you less of a person. It is actually an opportunity for you to watch how others in relationships behave on this day, take notes and use them to perfect your relationship when you do decide to be involved in one. If not that, you can make this an “All about you” pamper yourself and most importantly, do something nice for another person. Go for it, you deserve it.