The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter
THE trial date for two police officers stationed at Entumbane Police Station who allegedly stole two gas tanks and several cellphones which were part of goods looted during the recent violent protests in Bulawayo has been set. Thulani Nyathi (33) of Lobengula West and Victor Peter Munondo (28) of Entumbane suburb on Wednesday appeared before Bulawayo magistrate Ms Rachel Mukanga facing theft charges. They were remanded in custody to February 25 for trial. Allegations are that police received a report that was made at Entumbane Police Station indicating that there were looted goods that had been hidden in a broken down car at Entumbane Bus Terminus. Two police officers who were initially sent to investigate returned empty handed. Nyathi and Munondo then allegedly went to the bus terminus and arm-twisted a security guard manning the premises into showing them where the goods were hidden under the pretext that they were sent by their superiors to recover the loot. They then took the looted goods, but did not surrender the loot at Entumbane Police Station. Prosecuting, Mr Maclean Ndlovu said on January 25 at around 8AM, police received a tip off that stolen goods looted during protests were hidden in a broken down vehicle at a car park at Entumbane Bus Terminus. Entumbane Police Station Officer-in-Charge, only identified as Chief Inspector Mpofu, then assigned his juniors to investigate. “On January 26 at around 10AM, one Assistant Inspector Nkomo and a Constable Mavunga proceeded to Entumbane Bus Terminus. Upon arrival they failed to locate anyone and returned empty handed,” said Mr Ndlovu. On the same day at around 6PM, Nyathi and Munondo went to Entumbane Bus Terminus and found a security guard manning the parking area. On arrival at Entumbane Bus Terminus’ car park, the accused persons introduced themselves to the security guard as Detective Constables Maveya and Moyo. “They lied to him that they had been sent by their superiors to collect the stolen goods. They searched a broken down vehicle at the car park and recovered two 5kg gas tanks, eight cellphones and six bottles of battery water,” said Mr Ndlovu.—@mashnets