The Chronicle Sukoluhle Ndlovu, Midlands Correspondent
A SOMBRE atmosphere engulfed Chief Chirumhanzu’s homestead on Saturday afternoon as the late traditional leader, who died last Tuesday, was laid to rest. Born Gerald Mudzengi (51), Chief Chirumhanzu of Chirumhanzu area in the Midlands Province, died at Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals in Harare after a short illness. Thousands of mourners including Minister of Local Government, Public works and National Housing Cde July Moyo, Minister of State Security Cde Owen Ncube, Midlands Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Larry Mavima, Zanu-PF Midlands provincial chairperson, Engineer Daniel Mackenzie Ncube, and several senior Government officials attended the burial. Speaker after speaker described the late Chief Chirumhanzu as a unifier, a selfless and a God-fearing person, whose homestead was open for anyone in need. Minister Mavima said the late chief was a close ally of President Emmerson Mnangagwa and a staunch supporter of the ruling Zanu-PF party. “Today we are gathered here to celebrate the life of a selfless man who was a close and a trusted ally of President Emmerson Mnangagwa. He was a dedicated Zanu-PF member and the party is saddened by his untimely death,” he said. Minister Mavima said the Government assisted the family to give the late chief a decent burial. “As Government we are mandated to take care of burial arrangements as per the honour accorded to traditional leaders. It is our duty to make sure that our chiefs are given a decent burial,” said Minister Mavima. Engineer Ncube encouraged party members who also attended the funeral to desist from interfering in chieftainship wrangles. “I want to urge party supporters not to interfere in any chieftainship wrangles that may arise. After eight months, we expect the family to come with an interim Chief Chirumhanzu who will act only for two years. The substantive chief will only be installed two years from now,” he said. Chief Chirumhanzu was one of the longest serving chiefs in the Midlands following his installation in 2005. In 2013 to 2018 he served as a member of the National Council of Chiefs. — @sukusinini.