The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS members and supporters have expressed mixed feelings following a four-day player mutiny at the Bulawayo giants that resulted in 17 players walking out of their Matabeleland South based pre-season camp. The players downed tools on Monday over what the club said were allowances for training camp while the players yesterday revealed that part of their grievances were due to unpaid allowances from some tournaments the club participated in. Some players like Prince Dube, who did not feature in any official game for Highlanders last season, were also part of the players who were involved in the industrial action. When news of the mutiny broke out on Monday, social media went into overdrive with members and supporters having different opinions, some even suggesting a third force was behind the standoff. Bheka Sibanda felt it was poor planning on the part of the team leadership. “Poor planning for our team,” wrote Sibanda on Facebook as reports also spread that the team was planning to rope in Bosso 90 players as replacement for the players who had since left the training base. “Trying to blame the boys yet as administrators they are failing to uphold contracts signed is so poor and smelly. They should have made contracts with provisions for free labour at some points,” posted Derrick Gijima. Below are some of the Facebook posts by members and supporters. Sindiso Pisa Nyathi: Something is wrong or maybe we can say someone is misleading those who don’t want to train. How do you explain ukuthi part of the squad doesn’t want to train? Surely such players are going to be a headache going forward. Part of the reason why as Bosso family we said let’s concentrate on homegrown talent is because we wanted boys who understand what Highlanders is not only in terms of type of play but also to do with isimo sekhaya. Who doesn’t know iqembu lidonsa nzima yes, everyone needs money to feed their family but surely where do you expect Bosso to get money from before the season begins or without making any arrangements with the sponsor. Abangafuniyo ukusebenza yibumbulu lobo we need a captain that’s not going to accept such nonsense, let’s accommodate each other and be realistic. Alfred Sihwa: Lapha sebephambanisa, let’s be a democratic institute, every employee has a right to go on strike. Don’t kill the morale instead boost it. Buhle Ncube: Bosso must respect players, why act as if players are wrong to demand what’s theirs? They should learn to budget for players, hayi amanyala lawa. Ukuthi uyi Big team and anyone can die to play for kuyaphela, no player will sign with a club that bad mouths it’s players while depriving them their rights, making themselves look like angels, knowing players have no voice. A player in order to perform has to be physically fit, psychologically stable, no stress. You can’t do that when your landlord is threatening to throw out your family , when your kids are hungry. Sikhosana Welcome Makhosi: Still they are going to pay those from Bosso 90 as well,so who will they be fixing? They must negotiate in good faith with the players.
Mjibayeli Zinyane: Sidiniwe ngabafana asebemilimpiko, banengi abafunukulidlala elenyawo. Isaac Mbedzi: Yibo ubuhle be Developmental side eyayisibonwa ukuba expensive. Fiso Siziba: Bro, that’s not the solution, so labo abazafakwa abafuni yini bona ukuhola? They have to address the players’ plight. Remember these guys have contracts, what was agreed on in the contracts? Why should we bully players sisithi kayisoze ife? We have to plan well otherwise it’s another top eight achievement and not the championship. We brought in an extra Assistant coach singela mali yokubhadala abafana, and we want to say Bosso 90 will replace them, are they quality abe Bosso 90, why then would we get players from Mutare City, Aces Academy and Dynamos if those Bosso 90 guys were capable? Bravoe Ndlovu: Abaphe abafana abakufunayo ngoba vele akukho okunye so yimali. Lionel Sibanda: Inkinga some of our supporters are uncivilised they just bluff against Mhlophe (Kenneth) using their political differences while Bosso is for everyone yikho kuthiwa yiteam yezwe lonke. Abantu kabakhule iBosso kaso kaMhlophe ngeyakho ngeyethu. Instead of coming up with innovative and constructive ideas to raise funds or strike deals with sponsors libusy Mhlophe this and that. God bless you mdala wami. Meanwhile, the impasse has since been resolved with the players returning to the training base on Thursday night.