The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Showbiz Correspondent
POPULAR Skyz Metro FM radio anchor Babongile Sikhonjwa of the Vuka Vuka breakfast show will be hanging the mic at the end of the month. Sikhonjwa, the self proclaimed Ndebele Rockstar, is apparently calling it quits from the Bulawayo-based commercial radio station to pursue business interests. Skyz Metro FM and its parent company Fairtalk Communications yesterday confirmed the development through a statement. “Skyz Metro FM would like to inform its valued listeners, advertisers and other stakeholders that our breakfast show main anchor, Babongile Sikhonjwa has decided to hang up the mic. Sikhonjwa presented for just less than three years, the iconic Vuka Vuka Breakfast Show and will officially leave the station on the 28th of February, 2019,” read part of the statement. “The show, presented through his unique brand of humour and energy helped redefine radio by disrupting conventional concepts of broadcasting, and in the process, established itself as the leading breakfast show in the country. “Sikhonjwa has indicated that he wishes to devote more time to his growing entertainment business which now requires his fulltime presence.” The radio personality, who runs the Red Café and Roots outlets in the city, had become a darling to the radio station’s listenership as he used wit to tackle serious and light issues affecting Bulawayo and its surrounding areas. His Vuka Vuka show, which he co-hosts with TKP and airs from 6AM to 10AM, had become a refresher for most of the city’s residents. His ability to easily communicate with various age groups on air will certainly leave the station with a huge task of choosing a suitable broadcaster to replace him. Skyz Metro FM manager Godwin Phiri, however, assured their listeners that the radio station would find a stimulative person to take over from Sikhonjwa and rock the show. “We’ll soon be announcing (Sikhonjwa’s replacement). But listeners can expect the show to remain exciting,” said Phiri. The company wished Sikhonjwa success in his business endeavours. “Management of Fairtalk Communications would like to therefore wish Sikhonjwa all the best in his businesses, trusting that the same passion he showed for radio will be transferred to his businesses and it will bring us great joy that one of our own is achieving success elsewhere,” read the statement. “We value the time we spent with him from the earliest days when we were setting up the station and the consummate professionalism with which he has conducted himself up to his departure.” – @nqotshili