The Chronicle Pamenus Tuso, Business Correspondent
A BULAWAYO-based company, Brainswork, has introduced new water conservation smart metering technology. The water saving technology enables municipalities, individual households, institutions and companies to monitor and manage their water usage. The company’s chief executive officer, Mr Witker Tholana, said his organisation decided to introduce the smart metering technology after realising local authorities were losing a lot of revenue and water through leakages. “We feel that with the changing climate which has seen rainfall quantities reducing annually, it is time to take decisive action around water conservation. “Most municipalities lose treated water due to pipe bursts, illegal water connections and non-functional meters, increasing non-revenue water and impacting on the delivery of clean potable water,” he said in an interview with Business Chronicle. Mr Tholana said clean water gushing onto the street was costing municipalities a lot in revenue. “The smart water meters have the ability to set daily, weekly and monthly consumption limits with penalty warnings. “The gadgets can detect a possible leak and burst pipe with automated notification. “The gadgets have also the ability to set consumption limits on electricity and gas,” he said. Plumtree and Gwanda municipalities have already adopted the new water saving technology. Consumers in the two municipalities have also embraced the new technology. Mr Tholana pointed out that the smart metering devices were not only limited to municipalities but can also be used by corporates, utility companies and other communities. He said plans were afoot by his company to set up a local manufacturing plant in the city. “Plans are afoot to build a local manufacturing plant if more municipalities sign up for their products. “This will make the devices more affordable and improve on the service delivery imperatives. “The smart water meter puts the power back into the consumer’s hands and builds a strong sense of conservation by teaching users that water, gas and electricity are our most essential services that play a vital role in our economic and social development,” Mr Tholana said.