The Chronicle Sports Correspondent
CHICKEN Inn attacking midfielder Ayanda Bravie Sibanda is itching to secure a place in the first team after being sidelined for six months last year. Sibanda’s move to Chicken Inn during last year’s mid-season window from relegated side Nichrut after delays in the release of his clearance saw the Bulawayo side being unable to register him. Sibanda said it has been frustrating to be on the sidelines and is working hard to ensure that when the season kicks off he makes the cut in the starting team. “I last played competitively at Nichrut against Dynamos at Rufaro (Stadium) last June and when I thought my dream move to Chicken Inn was complete, there were delays in the release of my clearance and I had to sit out the rest of the year, which was frustrating for me. I wanted to quickly make an impact at the club and I believe my time is approaching with the new season starting next month,” said Sibanda. The 21-year-old, who has previously turned out for FC Cape Town and Chapungu, said he is aware of the competition at Chicken Inn following the side’s acquisition of new players, but said he was ready to fight for a place in the squad. Chicken Inn have not hidden their intentions to challenge for the title and have roped in players that include former Dynamos’ attacking midfielder-cum winger Valentine Kadonzvo, Panashe Mutasa, defender Phakamani Dube, Sipho Ndlovu, Clive Augusto, goalkeeper Donovan Bernard and midfielder Tichaona Chipunza. “Chicken Inn has managed to show its clout in the local football scene by exporting several players, managing to clinch the championship and being a competitive squad in its short tenure that it has been in the topflight. “This year the club has indicated its intention to win the championship and I am aware of the high expectations. I intend bringing value to the team through consistent hard work. I want to be on top of my game throughout the season and make an impact as we charge for the title. Working under coach (Joey) Antipas has also been great and I believe he can bring out the best in me.” He said heading to Malawi for a pre-season tournament presents the perfect opportunity for him to make his mark. Chicken Inn leave tomorrow for the four-team invitational tournament in Malawi. The 2019 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season kicks off on March 30, but Chicken Inn will square off against Bulawayo rivals Highlanders in the ZNA Charity Shield season opener on March 10.