The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent ON Valentine’s Day five years ago, Liquor Hub in Bulawayo opened its doors and changed the face of liquor purchasing in the city, making it the go to place for any imbiber. Liquor Hub, which is located in Bulawayo along Fife Street has a staff complement of more than 100 workers. Today the wholesaler is celebrating its fifth anniversary and as such is lubricating the city’s lovers’ mood with various social drinks that are on special. Every time there is some merrymaking in any season in Bulawayo, like its name, Liquor Hub, is the centre of attraction as hundreds flock due to its attractive bargains. Now that it’s Valentine’s Day, for those who want to be romantic, they can buy premium wines and whiskeys for their better halves at an affordable                                                 prices. There are also a variety of chocolates and other tasty treats that are on special offer during this period. The retail enterprise is owned by the Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce and Bulawayo business tycoon, Cde Raj Modi. The thriving enterprise opened its doors to the public on February 14, 2014. Cde Modi said business was going well despite the economic challenges. He thanked customers for supporting Liquor Hub. “Business has been growing steadily with little difficulties here and there, but we are managing. We would like to thank people for supporting us throughout this time. Ever since we left Bellevue, the support has been tremendous. We are very happy with our customers and I believe they are happy with our service,” said Cde Modi. He said as Liquor Hub they were expanding by opening a shop in western suburbs while a new branch in Cowdray Park is still work in progress. “We have just taken over in Nketa 6 and put one of our shops there. We have a supermarket also and we started that last week. In Cowdray Park, it’s still work in progress, but because of this situation in the economy we are delayed here and there. However, we haven’t stopped working,” said Cde Modi. Stanford Mazura the purchasing manager, expressed gratitude to their customers in Bulawayo and surrounding areas for their continued support. “We’ve turned five years as Wholesale Liquor Hub and we would like to thank our customers for all their support during the years. We have grown through their support and we would like to thank them for their continued support,” said Mazura. He said people should come and buy various goods on offer at Liquor Hub. “So far we’ve put some specials during the Valentine’s Day for our customers to enjoy. We appreciate their support hence the specials that we are running during the day. There are some in house specials in the liquor and grocery sections,” said Mazura. He urged their loyal customers to keep on supporting Liquor Hub so that it can keep on growing. “We would like to continue growing as Liquor Hub and we can only do so with the continued support from our customers. We urge them to not only support us but to also spread the word and be our ambassadors so that others can also enjoy the good services we offer. We wish all out customers a great Valentine’s Day,” said Mazura. Liquor Hub is involved in various corporate social responsibility programmes. It is the sponsor of the annual Liquor Hub 10km and 5km Charity Walk and also the Southern Region Soccer Stars Awards.