The Chronicle Senior Sports Reporter
BULAWAYO giants Highlanders are not in a hurry to find a replacement for goalkeeper Alfredy Chiname who had his two-year contract “mutually” terminated this week. The former Mutare City goalkeeper was found to be an age cheat after Bosso handed him a two-year contract believing he was a 26-year-old up-and-coming shot stopper only for a dramatic turn of events that showed that the player was actually way older than Ariel Sibanda, whom he was supposed to understudy. While it was initially reported that the Premier Soccer League records showed that he was 35-years-old, it has since been established that one of the two national identity documents which he had actually showed that he is 32-years-old, two years older than Sibanda. “It’s early days for now,” said Highlanders chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube when asked whether the coaches have since found a replacement for the age cheat. This publication is reliably informed that goalkeepers coach Tembo Chuma has told the club’s leadership that he would only be in a position to recruit a replacement when the team returns from a pre-season camp in the Eastern Highlands. Bosso loaned out Prosper Matutu and Nedrick Madeya and sources yesterday said Chuma was not keen on recalling any of the duo. “From what we understand Chuma said he wants the two boys (Matutu and Nedrick)to grow outside the Highlanders fence as he didn’t see them ever doing so while under the shadow of Sibanda, whom they were also unlikely to dislodge from the number one jersey,” said the source. Sibanda is the reigning Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Goalkeeper of the Year and was also voted as one of the 11 Soccer Stars of the Year last season. With the departure of the duo and the cheating shame of Chiname leading to his premature exit from the Bulawayo giants’ camp, Sibanda will now be deputised by former Amagagasi of Victoria Falls goalkeeper Wellington Muuya, a brilliantly talented shot stopper. Meanwhile, Highlanders are this afternoon expected to have a practice friendly match against a Masimba Dinyero-coached Eastern Region Division One side Green Fuel FC although the match is subject to rains not causing any drainage challenges at the match venue.