The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu/Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporters
ZIMDANCEHALL chanter Enzo Ishall dropped the long-awaited video of his hit single 50 Magate yesterday. The video, likely to anger members of the apostolic sects, is directed by award winning music video director Blaqs and features hip hop rapper Kikky Bad A$$, twerking. The song is about a woman whose dancing demons need to be exorcised. The Kanjiva hit-maker can be seen dancing intimately with the rapper who turned raunchy dancer in the new video, while the fellow apostles can be seen drooling over the dirty dancer. Many apostolic believers were quick to comment on the video, bashing the chanter for misrepresenting them. Just like the apostolic sect known as Johanne Masowe Yenguwo Tsvuku, who wear red robes Enzo Ishall is also donning the same garb in the music video. At Nguwo Tsvuku they have a shrine system where people go for consultations known as “kushandirwa” where Kikky Bad A$$’s friends take her to see Enzo Ishall, Madzibaba Stallion. Atop a mountain (gomo), is where the exorcism process happens, as a twerking Kikky Bad A$$ is poured a lot of water using magate (clay pots). Madzibaba Stallion chants: “Murandakadzi shavi rako iri rekutambisa apa rinoda 50 Magate fifte zvikaramba, Sikiste, Sikiste, sevente Magate!!” In other words Enzo is saying that her spirit of twerking is stubborn and has to be cleansed by 50, if not 60 or even 70 clay pots filled with water. They won’t stop until it accepts defeat and leaves. He plays around with stereotypes associated with Vapostori and illicit sexual activities that allegedly happen atop these mountains. There are a bunch of men, with three women gyrating sexually while the brood ogles and drools. Enzo Ishall who recently won two awards at the Star FM awards for the best Zimdancehall song as well as the best newcomer award plays the role of a lustful apostolic healer in the video. 50 Magate became viral on the internet upon its release as videos of the challenge quickly mushroomed on social media including the likes of raunchy dancer Bev, Zoey and Kikky Bad A$$. The challenge sparked a social media debate as some labelled it as immoral as under aged children were being attached to the challenge and mimicking the racy dance moves. Magate challenge led the chanter into trouble last month as he was beaten by his then wife who he later broke up with due to a feud which was allegedly linked to the chanter posting the Magate challenge video on his WhatsApp status. Meanwhile, Enzo Ishall is an artiste on high demand in Bulawayo as yet again he will be performing in the city two weeks in a row. The Kanjiva hit-maker is pencilled to perform on February 16 at The Vista as a Valentine’s treat for revellers. A week later the artiste will be at Cosmopolitan Night Club on February 23 as his trailblazing continues. Promoter of the Cosmopolitan show, Terminator Makoni said Enzo Ishall was in high demand and they wanted to hold one for the mature. “This young man is on demand by a lot of people and we decided to hold a show for the mature who like his music. This is because Cosmopolitan is mostly geared towards the mature and they should have a chance to watch him perform,” said Makoni. He said during the show there will be up and coming artistes who will curtain raise for Enzo Ishall, with Cosmopolitan resident DJs Kead Wikead, Mzoe and Keezy rocking the decks. Entrance has been pegged at $10 bond, VIP $20 bond and VVIP $30 to $50 bond. Makoni said to show that Enzo was very popular this weekend he will be in Victoria Falls at Comfort Lounge. This will be the second time in as many weeks that Enzo Ishall will perform in Bulawayo after his debut at The Vista. Hundreds of youths and the young at heart who have been captivated by Enzo Ishall are expected to throng the show to watch the artiste who popularised Kanjiva. He is also the man behind the hit song Smart that when played in nightspots everyone starts pointing to their shoes, imitating the chorus by Enzo Ishall.