The Chronicle Business Reporter
ENVIRONMENT, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister, Prisca Mupfumira, who is the United Arab Emirates for the on-going World Government Summit met the diaspora community living in Dubai and urged them to market destination Zimbabwe. The meeting is part of the minister’s international re-engagement efforts aimed at reaching out to Zimbabweans living in the diaspora to join hands in marketing the country as a favourable tourism destination. Minister Mupfumira and senior ministry staff are in Dubai where they also met Zimbabweans resident in Abu Dhabi, Doha and Kuwait, in an effort to attract more arrivals to various tourism sites across the country. In her address during a reception, Minister Mupfumira said diaspora involvement in the Destination Zimbabwe marketing campaign was critical to the Government’s strategy. “There is no doubt that the Zimbabwean diaspora are absolutely key to achieving tourism development and will continue to play a critical role in our efforts to revive our economy. Government is cognisant of the role that its people in the diaspora can play in the economy,” she said. “From a tourism point of view, all people in the diaspora, we look at you as our brand ambassadors. We expect you to work very closely with us and spread the good news about your country, ‘destination Zimbabwe’.” The Minister and her delegation are in Dubai for the World Government Summit, which she described as a success, especially coming at a time Zimbabwe was celebrating its nomination to the top three on the Lonely Planet’s best 10 countries to visit in 2019. She said the nomination was an outcome of joint efforts with various partners who helped to promote Zimbabwe. “The endorsements and awards come at an opportune time when Zimbabwe is seriously looking at intensifying its brand marketing in various source markets. This is in line with our marketing strategy,” said Minister Mupfumira. “Zimbabwe boasts a range of attractive destinations with Unesco World Heritage sites that include the Great Zimbabwe Monuments, Matobo Hills National Park, Khami Ruins, the great Mana Pools and the majestic Victoria Falls to mention but just a few. The country is also very peaceful with the friendliest people one can ever find in Africa if not globally.” The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority who are using the visit to Dubai as a way of solidifying their presence in the Arabic Market had chief operating officer, Mr Givemore Chidzidzi, attending the event while head of corporate affairs, Mr Godfrey Koti, directed the ceremony. Zimbabwe’s happiness ambassadors, Joseph Chinotimba and television personality Dr Rebecca Chisamba affectionately known as Mai Chisamba, brought joy to the reception as people rushed to get photos with them, said the ministry in an update yesterday.