The Chronicle Victor Maphosa, Harare Bureau
President Mnangagwa will tomorrow preside over commemorations to mark Africa Environment Day, Wangari Maathai Day, World Wildlife Day and the Clean-up Day at Lake Chivero. Environmental Management Agency (EMA) Communications Officer Joyce Chapungu confirmed in a statement. “EMA and Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management will host the 2019 Edition of the Africa Environment Day, the day will be commemorated jointly with the World Wildlife Day, Wangari Maathai Day and the National Clean-Up Day. “The commemorations will be on March 1 at Lake Chivero, His Excellency President E.D. Mnangagwa will be the guest of honour,” she said. Ms Chapungu said the Africa Environment Day and World Wildlife Day are commemorated on March 3 each year but this year they will be commemorated two days earlier. On December 5 last year, President Mnangagwa declared first Friday of every month a National Clean-up Day, when all citizens are supposed to clean their surroundings between 0800 and 1000 hours. Ms Chapungu said the initiative is aimed at creating a clean and a healthier environment for the nation. “March 1 is the first Friday of the month and all citizens are encouraged to participate by cleaning areas surrounding their homes, work premises, churches, schools and markets. This gesture will go a long way in creating a clean, safe and healthy environment for all,” she said. Ms Chapungu said Africa Environment Day, was proclaimed by the African Union in 2002, then known as the Organisation of African Unity, as a way of raising awareness on pressing environmental challenges facing the continent and Zimbabwe uses this day as a platform to discuss topical issues like waste management and a green economy. After the 2012 Session of the General Assembly of the African Union decided to recognize Professor Wangari Maathai’s numerous achievements in her capacity as the first Presiding Officer of the African Union’s Economic, Social and Cultural Council, African Union Peace Ambassador, UN Peace Messenger for Environment and Climate among others through the Wangari Maathai Day, since then the Day has been celebrated jointly with the Africa Environment Day. The World Wildlife Day was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly in 2014 to raise awareness of the world wide flora and fauna. This year the day is celebrated under the theme “Life below water: for people and planet”.