The Chronicle Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter
TSHOLOTSHO Rural District Council (RDC) Chief Executive Officer Mr Themba Moyo, who is facing allegations of fraud and misconduct, has resigned with immediate effect. His problems started when an audit instituted by Government unearthed abuse of funds among other malpractices at the local authourity. In his resignation letter addressed to council lawyer Advocate Pineaus Madzivire and copied to council chairman, Mr Esau Siwela, Mr Moyo’s lawyer Advocate Lison Ncube of Joel Pincus, Konson Wolhuter legal Practitioners said his client was resigning with immediate effect. “The above matter refers (labour dispute), due to unforeseen circumstances our client has opted to resign with immediate effect from your client’s employment,” reads the letter. Mr Moyo served as Tsholotsho RDC CEO for 10 years. Mr Siwela confirmed receiving the resignation letter through their lawyers and said the CEO resigned at a time when he was set to appear before a disciplinary hearing. Mr Moyo is also facing criminal charges and the matter is still pending in court. “Mr Moyo tendered his resignation letter before the hearing proceedings. “He was due to face serious allegations of abuse of office, fraud and theft of council funds which were unearthed by a commission of inquiry after an audit done in March last year,” he said. Mr Moyo resigned while he was on suspension for 33 counts of gross misconduct and misappropriation of funds. Some of the accusations against him are that he caused a bank account in the name of Tsholotsho RDC Stadium to be opened at CBZ without obtaining a council resolution and the account had signatories who were not employees of Tsholotsho RDC in violation of standing rules and regulations governing public funds or accounts. He is also alleged to have failed to ensure that there was observance of a quorum system in any tendering process. Mr Moyo is also alleged to have failed as the CEO to ensure that proper human resources information systems pertaining to staff in terms of salary arrears owed to each employee, their qualifications, management of leave-days and pension contributions were maintained. “It is alleged that you failed to inform your employer about a Zimdef deposit which was made into your employer’s account amounting to $354 962-00,” reads the suspension letter. The suspension letter accused him of failing to create and maintain an asset register for assets that belong to council contrary to the provisions of section 120(3) of the Rural District Councils Act. — @esinathy_essira