The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
MUSIC video producer Vusa Blaqs says he is unapologetic for his hand in Enzo Ishall’s 50 Magate music video as that is how he wanted it to be. Enzo Ishall’s music video, that is centred around a woman (Kikky Bada$$) who needs to be exorcised by members of an apostolic sect because of her seductive dances, was released earlier this week. It has generated mixed feelings from different quarters with people suggesting that it is lukewarm and way below par, judging by multi-award-winning Vusa Blaqs’ previous works. Could it be that people were expecting to see Bev (as she is famed for raunchy dancing) playing the lead role in the official video? Looking at videos that emanated from the #50MagateChallenge which went viral weeks before the release of the music video, some felt Blaqs, who has been behind most of Jah Prayzah, Ammara Brown and ExQ’s fancy videos, was better off coming up with a video from most of the challenge recordings. Those who made the #50Magate challenge interesting were the likes of raunchy dancer Bev who had the most shared video on social media platforms. This is actually what lured many people to the song so when the official video was released, people expected an out-of-this-world production. Despite all the criticism, Vusa Blaqs said he is happy with the added attention the video has received. “The music video was exactly what I wanted it to be. The whole thing was supposed to be simple and nothing more. It was supposed to depict exactly that — Vapostori on a mountain going along with the themes that are on the song,” said Blaqs. To show that it was a music video that people were anticipating to watch, it has raked in over 130 000 views in just three days since its release on YouTube. Perhaps this was because of the sexual innuendos littered all over the music video set off by hip hop musician Kikky BadA$$’ rump shaking skills. One wonders if this music video will be shown on any ZBCtv music show anytime soon. Somehow noticing that the video had not hit the right chord, Blaqs asked people on his Facebook page what they did not like about the music video. Most said Kikky BadA$$ did not do justice to the twerking and that Bev was supposed to be included in the music video because her dancing prowess was second to none. However, for Blaqs, these arguments and counter arguments were what he wanted when he produced the music video. “When you see people talking like this, it’s good. I wanted that conversation (Bev’s inclusion) to be there and for it to continue. It shows people take note and that they’re interested in the products we produce. The feedback is handy,” he said. Of note is that at the beginning of the video, the words “Not directed by Umsebenzi kaBlaqs” (not Blaqs’ works) appear which could have been a clever way of Blaqs distancing himself from the shoddy video. This line made some ponder if perhaps Blaqs was hired to do the shots of the music video without having some active input into its directing. On this, Blaqs said at the end of the day, he was happy that people now associate him and his products with a certain standard. “I’m glad that in people’s minds, they have created a level of excellence that I must maintain. Watch this space for more of Blaqs. One thing I’ve learned is that I’ve amassed a community of people who support what we do, those same people expect excellence from us,” said Blaqs. All in all, the music video is out and it has revitalised the career of Kikky BadA$$ who had gone quiet from the hip hop scene last year. Hopefully, she will use this traction to introduce new fans to her songs.