The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
REIGATE District yesterday concluded its inter-schools track and field competitions at Northlea High School and also used the event to select a district team for the forthcoming provincial finals. The provincials are set for White City Stadium next month. Mzilikazi High, Emakhandeni, Luveve, Cowdray Park, Prestige, St Columbus, Entumbane, Sobukhazi and Northlea participated in the competition in which the hosts were runaway leaders at the time of going to press with 59 medals – 35 gold, 11 silver and 13 bronze, while St Columbus were a distant second with 23 medals, eight gold, seven silver and eight bronze medals. Emakhandeni and Prestige High were the only two schools without gold medals. Prestige, located in Cowdray Park suburb, had two silver and four bronze medals, while Emakhandeni had picked up one silver and three bronze medals. Reigate district convener Phineas Benjamin Ndlovu said despite having limited time to prepare for the inter-schools event, they had to go on with the competition in order to come up with a team for the White City showdown. “The preparations were not as smooth as we had wanted. We’re looking forward to coming up with a strong team that will represent our district in a dignified manner and we hope this time around we’ll dislodge Mzilikazi district which has been dominant in the past years,” said Ndlovu. Ndlovu, who is also the Cowdray Park Secondary School headmaster, thanked the organisers for ensuring that the welfare of the learners was prioritised. “There are no serious casualties so far apart from muscle problems which can be attributed to lack of preparations. We want to ensure that a number of our athletes as Reigate make it into the Bulawayo provincial team as well as team Zimbabwe. Considering that there will be the Confederation of School Sports Associations of Southern Africa (Cossasa) athletics games to be held in Eswatini (formerly Swaziland), it will be good for us to be represented in the regional competition,” said Ndlovu. — @ DecoDecent2