The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
IN a repeat of last year’s Bulawayo Metropolitan Rugby Football Board Under-21 tournament semi-finals, Old Miltonians and Highlanders battle for a place in the final at Hartsfield Grounds this afternoon. OMs emerged victorious in last year’s semi-final and went on to lose to Matabeleland Warriors in the final. Heading into today’s game, despite clobbering the tournament’s whipping boys Bulldogs 41-0 last weekend, Highlanders carry the underdogs tag into the semi-finals. OMs lost 15-20 to defending champions Warriors in a match that they clearly dominated. Highlanders coach Francis Nakama said his team is comfortable with the underdogs tag and they are looking forward to upsetting OMs. “The boys have been training well and everyone seems to be ready for the game. I think we’re comfortable with the underdogs tag because everyone in rugby circles in tipping OMs. It eases pressure on us so that we play our game relaxed. OMs played well last weekend against Warriors even though they lost and if they can replicate that performance then we have to up our game as well. “They like to play with the forwards because they have big guys and we are not worried about that. If we can neutralize that area I think we can do better,” said Nakama. Highlanders will bank on captain Josiah Gondo, centre Nicholas Chipanje, fullback Cain Mathema, the forward pair of Bukhosi Tembo and Exalted Tomu, winger Kelvin Streak and eighth man Panashe Marufandi. OMs, 2017 champions have had rocky preparations, with the coach Takunda “Killer” Katsukunya who captained the team that won the 2017 title saying some players have been AWOL. “Our preparations haven’t been so good as some of the boys were not attending training. However, we’re hoping to go through to the semi-final and continue from our last weekend’s performance. I’m confident that the guys who attended training are going to give their best on Saturday,” said Katsukunya. Gana Mathawula, Innocent Ncube, Praymore Sadomba, Barney Matambo, Shepherd Mtheliso, Lyden Gakava and Keith Chirimambowa are expected to lead OMs against Highlanders. Semi-finals fixtures Today: -Warriors v Bulldogs (2:30pm) -Highlanders v Bulldogs (4pm) *Both games at Hartsfield Grounds — @ZililoR