The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter
AT a time when veteran musician Thomas “Mukanya” Mapfumo has been ranting that Zimbabwean musicians are failing to make a mark on the international scene, Zimdancehall musician Winky D has put his best foot forward with an impressive collaboration and performance on the continental Coke Studio Africa music show. After hearing that Winky D, one of the most talented Zimbabwean musicians of this generation, had been featured on the acclaimed music collaboration show, many had been anticipating to see him in action. That moment finally came on Saturday with many saying they liked what they saw on ZBCtv. Coke Studio Africa, a music collaboration reality show that seeks to bring together artistes to celebrate the diversity of African music and talent, debuted on ZBCtv this past weekend with a performance from Winky D and Mozambique’s Messias Maricoa. The melodious soulful voice of Messias was a perfect blend with the Zimdancehall chanter’s rhymes and flow. Titled Higher, the song, which is likely to create a fan base for Winky D in Mozambique and the better part of Africa, is sung in English and Shona. It was produced by Nigeria’s GospelOnDaBeatz. Since its release this past weekend, the song that was recorded in one day at the Coke Studio in Kenya, has captured the hearts of many as it has received positive feedback. Coke Studio Africa has been at the forefront of producing quality music while at the same time granting various artistes across the continent mega exposure and opportunities to collaborate with each other. To top it all, the artistes also get to work with some of the best African and international professionals in the music world. Locals can expect to see more Zimbabwean flavour on the Coke Studio show as fast-rising songbird Tammy Moyo also has a collaboration with Laurenha Nhate from Mozambique. More appearances will be from up-and-coming female rapper and TV personality Boity, Mozambican rapper Laylizzy and Chef 187 (Zambia), acclaimed diva Shellsy Baronet (Mozambique), award-winning singer Lourena Nhate (Mozambique) and fast-rising femcee Lioness (Namibia). Coca-Cola Southern and East African business unit head of content excellence Monali Shah said: “With the programme, we continue to set pace in the industry by using music to connect with our consumers – who are big enthusiasts of it. “The programme continues to create business opportunities for hundreds of people in the industry, across the continent, working on the various components of this production.” Meanwhile, Winky D is set to drop a love song on Valentine’s Day. Titled, MuGarden, the song will feature songstress Gemma Griffiths.