The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls
THE Rafting Association of Zimbabwe (RAZ) has stopped white water rafting activities in some parts of the Zambezi River and moved downstream owing to rising water levels. Usually the rafting season closes for a few months between March and June depending on which month the river receives huge inflows from upstream. Of late, rafting activities are being done between Rapids 11 and 22 because the river has started receiving significant inflows making it dangerous to sail in the upper gorges. In an interview, a representative from RAZ Mr Cephas Moyo from Shearwater Adventures said safety was a priority in rafting hence they check water levels every morning. He said last week water levels had risen by 7.40mm making it dangerous to do rafting because of high water current. Under normal circumstances rafting starts at Rapid 1 between the main waterfall and the Victoria Falls Bridge. “The water level has now risen by 7.40mm hence we have moved to high water rafting where we start at Rapid11 and end at Rapid 22,” said Mr Moyo. He said guides monitor water levels every morning before any activity. “We check every morning using a Zimbabwe National Water Authority gauge to monitor the water level. We have documented this over the years and know the implications of each level and when it’s time to move from high to low water level,” Mr Moyo said. He said high water rafting was done when water levels rise by between 5.90mm and 14.50mm. When levels hit 14.50mm, the season closes as it will be dangerous to enter the river. “There are dangers associated with high water rafting such as fast moving water, lots of turbulence, whirlpools and boils, which make it difficult to swim longer. We are guided by the weather in terms of when to close and open the season,” added Mr Moyo. The Zambezi River is full between March and August while between September and January the water levels will be low. When the water level is very low, some rapids become dangerous and also when the river floods. White water rafting is one of the major tourism activities that attract scores of tourists from around the world on a daily basis. — @ncubeleon