The Chronicle Mthabisi Tshuma
The countdown to the day reserved to celebrate love, February 14, has begun with its traditional colours – red and white – set to be the most worn in the coming week. The overrated day has in the past, been filled with Valentine’s beauty contests with artistes also maximising on the day by releasing love singles and lining up romantic gigs. Not missing out on this opportunity is one Bajilla (real name Mduduzi Ncube) an up-and-coming afro fusion/maskandi artiste who is set to drop his first single titled African Queen on Valentine’s Day. African Queen, Bajilla said entails the beauty that the continent houses and the need to safeguard it. The musician-cum-actor who features on the Maganyane comedy clips said he would also release the single’s video on the same day. A teaser for the video is set to be released tomorrow on social media platforms. Other than the African Queen single, Bajilla said he would use this year to introduce music lovers to his brand and music adding that another single is due for release in May. “2019 is a year that I want to use to create my fan base around the country. I want my music to appeal to the maskandi lovers mostly as well as those who love afro-jazz music,” Bajilla said. “I’m starting the year by releasing singles then by the end of the year, I’ll certainly drop my first album.” With the growth of maskandi in the region, Bajilla who also doubles up as Madlela Skhobokhobo’s lead band member was last year signed under Madlela’s Dlelas Music record label. Through this partnership, Bajilla has already been featured by Madlela on a song, Tambai that will be released later this year. Commenting on Bajilla’s craft, Madlela acknowledged his rare talent. “I promise fans that his track will blow their minds. Ngiyalithembisa iphiwe le ndoda kakhulu. (I can assure you, he’s a talented musician). Given a chance, usengasi vala isikhala sika Golide. (Given a chance, he has the potential to fill in the gap in our record label). He’s that good,” Madlela said. – @mthabisi_mthire.