The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
TELEVISION personality, Mbo Mahocs, has been nominated for the 2019 South Africa ZimAchievers Awards (ZAA) in the Simba Mhere People’s Choice Media Personality of the year category. The awards ceremony that will be in the form of a Dinner Gala will be held on April 6 at the Hilton Hotel in Johannesburg, South Africa. The South Africa-based actress, who last year landed the role of Chichi on eTv soapie Scandal!, is among four other personalities nominated for the award – Tino Chinyani (eTv Breakfast Show presenter), Simba Gozo (model, TV personality, entertainer), Lorraine Sibanda (PR Consultant) and Mellissa Laung (actress, TV/radio presenter). According to event organisers, the awards are held annually to recognise Zimbabwean movers and shakers in South Africa who have been flying the country’s flag high in different sectors. The People’s Choice Media Personality award, organisers said, is in honour of the late Top Billing presenter, Mhere, who died in a car accident in South Africa four years ago. The award was introduced to acknowledge outstanding players in the media fraternity. “The media personality will have taken the lead role in informing, educating, encouraging debate and leading in the constructive evaluation of issues and policies that affect or are relevant to Zimbabweans,” explained the organisers. Voting for the nominees on the ZimAchievers SA website will start on February 20, closing on March 28. Mbo Mahocs described the nomination as humbling. “Honoured and humbled to the core to be nominated for the People’s Choice Media Personality of the Year Award by Zim Achievers Awards (SA).” Besides featuring on Scandal! Mbo, who is also a fashion icon, seems to be making the right noise in South Africa where she has been profiled by television programmes such as Expresso on SABC 3. Also nominated at the ZAAs are sports personalities – Khama Billiat, Kuda Mahachi, Talent Chawapiwa, Tapuwa Kapini and Nyasha Munetsi in the Peter Ndlovu SA Based Footballer of the year category. Authors Nomakhosazana Ndlovu and Sue Nyathi are nominated in the author/writer of the year category and Genius “Ginimbi” Kadungure’s publicist – Shaleen Nullens in the Female Entrepreneur category. Mzansi Bus Services is nominated in the business of the year category.