The Chronicle Showbiz Reporter
RENOWNED music producer and DJ, Stavo is set to drop his first single of the year today. Titled, Bad News, the house single, a love song, features pop singer, Gemma Griffiths and will be released on the DJ’s social media platforms. In an interview yesterday, DJ Stavo, the man behind hits The Journey featuring Roki and Simudza Ngoma featuring Jah Prayzah said he was glad that Bad News was finally being released. “We recorded the vocals last year and this song was supposed to have been released last year. I held it back because I was mostly focused on my wedding, but finally it’s time. “I hope my fans will love the song.” Popularly known as the Kwekwe Hustler, the DJ, who married his longtime sweetheart Kudzai towards the end of last year, said this year, his focus would once again be on producing singles. With a career that spans close to two decades and no album to his name, DJ Stavo said he was in no hurry to produce an album. This he said was mainly because there were no proper systems in place for the sale of CDs in the country. “I’m not rushing to drop an album. I’ve enough music for an album and was actually supposed to release one this year, but I’ll wait. We don’t have proper systems in place to make us sell CDs in Zimbabwe at the moment. Everyone is dealing with online so I won’t get good sales if I release an album. Maybe I’ll do so next year. For this year, people should expect more singles, international and local collaborations,” said DJ Stavo. Over the years, Stavo has worked with the likes of the late Mandoza, Professor, Shota, Trademark and Muungu Africa. Locally, he has worked with ExQ, Andy Muridzo and the late Oliver Mtukudzi. On his rant on social media about not being invited to the inaugural Star FM Music Awards, Stavo said it was because he was disheartened. “I had to express how I felt. I’ve contributed a lot to the arts industry and have been putting a lot of work to not be invited to those awards. It’s for such reasons that I haven’t been submitting my music to local radio stations. “In 2019, I’ll continue releasing my music online and on other international platforms where I’m respected,” said the DJ. Asked if his career would not be affected by lack of airplay on local radio stations, Stavo said social media was the most viable in terms of marketing his music. Quizzed on when he would be in the City of Kings, Stavo, who performed at BAC Leisure in December, said for now, he was concentrating on producing music, but would start working on bookings next month.