The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE Government has congratulated Zifa for penning a three-year technical sponsorship deal with a reputable United Kingdom based sportswear company, Umbro, yesterday. The deal, which was signed in Harare, will see the sportswear company kitting representative Zimbabwe national sides for the next three years, and the government, through the Sports and Recreation Commission, said the deal must be jealously guarded as it was a window to more sponsorships. “Well done Zifa for managing to get a technical sponsor in the name of Umbro. This is a step in the right direction as this will enhance our image, as we will be kitted by an internationally aclaimed brand. Our hope is that the sponsorship deal will be guarded jealously as this is a window of opportunity for Zifa to court more sponsors,” wrote the SRC on its official Facebook page. Umbro also confirmed the deal via its microblogging site Twitter yesterday. “We’re pleased to announce a new 3-year partnership with the Zimbabwe national team. 6 x Cosafa Cup Champions. #zimbabwe #warriors #mightywarriors #zifa #umbro #umbrofootball,” the company twitted. This is the second time that Zifa has entered into partnership with Umbro. It first entered into a deal in 2013 ahead of the Chan finals, but reckless statements by some members of the Zifa secretariat resulted in the relationship ending prematurely. Then Zifa chief executive officer Jonathan Mashingaidze told the media that the association would investigate the sale of replica jerseys which seemed to benefit certain individuals. These claims stunned Umbro, which immediately responded through its director of sales and marketing Donovan Bell by expressing the company’s disappointment over the developments. “I am quite disheartened by the article I read in the online press this morning. It seems to indicate that Umbro has done something wrong. I attach two letters where it is clearly communicated to Zifa that we are only making a limited number of replicas to test the market during Chan,” Bell said in his email then. “Reference to someone making ‘hundreds of thousands’ is quite misplaced as the total sale of 500 units would only amount to R125 000. “There could be a few units remaining in the market amongst some retailers who bought same to test their markets, however, we have no control over this.”