The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
AFTER the successful hosting of the inaugural Inside Out talent show for prisoners in Bulawayo last year, the reality show will this year be spreading its wings to Matabeleland North. Inside Out, a brainchild of musician Clarence “Kirah” Garura, is a programme aimed at rehabilitating and reintegrating prisoners into society. The talent search, which also seeks to identify, nurture and expose talent, has six categories namely a capella music, Zimdancehall, contemporary music, dance, drama and poetry. Kirah, who is also the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services Arts and Rehab Ambassador for Bulawayo Metropolitan province, said the Matabeleland North launch will be held on February 21 at Hwange Prison. The launch, he said, will be graced by Matabeleland North Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Richard Moyo. Kirah appealed to Zimbabweans to help fund the talent show. “We appeal to the corporate world and organisations to partner us for the success of this project which is a first in Zimbabwe. I believe it’ll change and transform the lives of many within prison walls. “Also, those outside the prison walls will begin to understand, accept and receive with both hands, those that have been released from prison,” said Kirah. He said after the Matabeleland North launch, the talent search would commence the next day. “Immediately after the launch, we’ll begin the talent search for inmates and prison officers. The first and second preliminary rounds will be done at Hwange Prison. Thereafter, semi-finals will be held from February 28 to March 1 where those who would’ve made it will be given assignments for the grand finale.” Semi-finalists are set to go for a boot camp at a venue to be advised with the finals pencilled for March 14, at a venue to be advised. “The finals will either be held in Hwange or Victoria Falls to accommodate the corporate world and possible sponsors as well as other people from outside the country,” said Kirah. The show founder, who came up with the idea of the talent competition after touring prisons in Bulawayo, said he realised there was a need to engage inmates through rehabilitation projects. “Through this show, we seek to prepare inmates for reintegration back into communities after they finish serving their jail terms. I also realised that inmates need motivation. Involving inmates in arts programmes can make behaviour better and prepare them for employment opportunities,” Kirah said.