The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter
FOUR gold panners suspected to be part of a mob that allegedly attacked a 35-year-old man from Gwanda before he was later found dead by a passerby, have been each granted $100 bail pending trial by the High Court. Andria Chibakuwa, Thandolwethu Ncube, Qhubinhlanhla Sibanda and Trust Tshuma – all from Avoca in Filabusi – are facing murder charges in connection with the death of Thembelani Ncube of Matshiya Village in Matshetsheni. They allegedly indiscriminately attacked him before stabbing him on the stomach and he died on the spot. Ncube’s body was found by a passerby along the Farvic-Colleen Bawn road who alerted the police. As part of their bail conditions, Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Nokuthula Moyo ordered the four men to report once every two weeks at Filabusi Police Station and to reside at their given addresses until the matter is finalised. “The applicants are ordered to deposit $100 bail each with the clerk of court at the Gwanda magistrate’s court. As part of the bail conditions, the applicants are also ordered not interfere with State witnesses,” ruled the judge. In their bail statement, the four men, through their lawyer Mr Kholwani Ngwenya of TJ Mabhikwa and Partners, argued that they had a strong and good prima facie defence against the charge laid against them. “The interests of justice will not be prejudiced by the applicants’ admission to bail. They undertake to reside at their given addresses until the matter is finalised and not to interfere with witnesses,” said Mr Ngwenya. The State opposed bail, arguing that the four were a flight risk and likely to interfere with witnesses.
According to court papers, on November 26 last year, the four suspects allegedly ganged up with one Brian Tshuma who is still at large and assaulted Ncube. They allegedly went on to stab him with a knife in the stomach and he died on the spot. They fled from the scene leaving the deceased lying in a pool of blood. The source of dispute was, however, not mentioned in court papers. A passerby stumbled upon Ncube’s body and informed police leading to the arrest of the four men. Preliminary investigations revealed that Ncube was seen earlier on that day being chased by a group of people who are still to be identified. —@mashnets