The Chronicle Editor: Please could you kindly publish my input for the Head of State, His Excellency ED Mnangagwa and his counterpart from the Republic of Botswana who are about to hold their special meeting here in Zimbabwe. I wish they could look into the issue of travel documents, more-so, on the emergency travel document which Botswana does not accept. During these difficult times where nationals might want to cross into Botswana quickly using emergency travel documents which is quick and easier to obtain, people from this country always find it difficult to cross the border. I am one person who travels a lot and has met many Zimbabweans facing problems in crossing the border. Six years ago a relative of mine failed to travel to Botswana for his daughter’s funeral. The girl died in Botswana and her father was denied entry because he had an emergency travel document. This is my appeal to the two Heads of State and other regional leaders to strongly consider allowing people from the region to cross borders using emergency travel documents like the ones we use between Zimbabwe and Zambia. This is also good for our unity as neighbouring countries. I wish this will be published for the Heads of State to see. I have so many contributions which have not been published. I am one Zimbabwean who doesn’t miss a copy of The Chronicle and I am in possession of daily copies dating back to 30-40 years which I keep at my house. -Rev Africa M S Jubane, Victoria Falls Generalised anxiety disorder EDITOR: It is normal to feel anxious from time to time, especially if your life is stressful. However, excessive, ongoing anxiety and worry that are difficult to control that interferes with day-to-day activities may be a sign of generalised anxiety disorder. It is possible to develop generalised anxiety disorder from childhood but more so as an adult. The symptoms that are similar to that of panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder and other types of anxiety, but they’re all different conditions. Living with generalized anxiety disorder can be challenging and chronic. In many cases, it occurs along with other anxiety or mood disorders. In most cases, generalised anxiety disorder improves with psychotherapy or and medications. Making lifestyle changes, learning coping skills and using relaxation techniques also can definitely help. Generalised anxiety disorder mental symptoms can vary but may include: – Persistent worrying or anxiety about a number of areas that are out of proportion to the impact of the events – Overthinking plans and solutions to all possible worst-case outcomes – Perceiving situations and events as threatening, even when they are not – Difficulty handling uncertainty – Indecisiveness and fear of making the wrong decision – Inability to set aside or let go of a worry – Inability to relax, feeling restless, and feeling keyed up or on edge – Difficulty concentrating, or the feeling that your mind “goes blank” Physical signs and symptoms may include: -Fatigue – Trouble sleeping – Muscle tension or muscle aches – Trembling, feeling twitchy – Nervousness or being easily startled – Sweating – Nausea, diarrhoea or irritable bowel syndrome – Irritability There may be times when your worries do not completely consume you, but you still feel anxious even when there is no apparent reason. For example, you may feel intense worry about your safety or that of your loved ones, or you may have a general sense that something bad is about to happen. Your anxiety, worry or physical symptoms cause you significant distress in social, work or other areas of your life. Worries can shift from one concern to another and may change with time and age. A psychiatrist visit is needed when: 1) You feel like you’re worrying too much, and it’s interfering with your work, relationships or other parts of your life 2) You feel depressed or irritable, have trouble with drinking or drugs, or you have other mental health concerns along with anxiety 3) You have suicidal thoughts or behaviors Your worries are unlikely to simply go away on their own, and they may actually get worse over time. The earlier one seeks treatment the better. Dr Sacrifice Chirisa.
– Dr Sacrifice Chirisa is a passionate consultant psychiatrist at Harare Hospital Psychiatric Unit.
He is a certified life and business coach and secretary general of the Zimbabwe Medical Association