The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
THE Community Sports Development Programme (CSDP) leadership for Mzilikazi District yesterday visited ward 24 at Nketa Hall to assess progress made by the community in establishing sports clubs. All wards across the country elected committees expected to draft a roadmap to come up with clubs in various sporting disciplines in an initiative sponsored by the Ministry of Youth, Sports, Arts and Recreation. Mzilikazi district CSDP chairman Thabiso Magutshwa said they are following up to check on the elected committees in all wards across the district. “The objective is to have effective clubs which run sports, thus each ward must have at least four clubs consisting of netball, football, cricket and volleyball. We’re looking forward to include all sporting disciplines in future. “It’s the Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC) strategy and the Ministry of Youth, Sports, Arts and Recreation to see all age groups from tender age taking part in this initiative. From the grassroots up to national level, effective competition is expected and the committees are meant to develop the youngsters,” said Magutshwa. Mzilikazi district sports and recreation officer Mlindazwe Mabhena spoke of the importance of having committee members to oversee the running of the clubs in their respective wards. “Let’s make progressive decisions to take our wards forward and people must know that they shouldn’t carry their political jacket in sports programmes. All 22 sports codes must be embraced and we need a proper structure of club formation. It’s not only the youngsters who will benefit but the elders also because sport is life. “Diabetes and high blood pressure can be dealt with through taking part in sport and registering clubs through the ministry and the SRC will benefit the when children they travel for competitions,” said Mabhena. He said teachers must be included in the committees because most of the children expected to participate in sports competitions are school children. — @DecoDecent2