The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
YOUTH, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister Kirsty Coventry yesterday challenged athletes to focus on their goals and avoid distractions. Coventry’s message comes at a time when the Footballers’ Union of Zimbabwe (Fuz) is seized with a campaign to deter soccer players from partaking in drugs and substance abuse. Posting on her Twitter page, Coventry, a multi-Olympic gold medalist wrote: “Athletes focus on what is in their control. The moment an athlete starts worrying about things outside their lane, they will not get the results they want. There will always be external pressures, stay in your lane and do what you do. #MondayMotivation #Focus.” Sports psychologist, Mxolisi Ndlovu, who is also a lecturer in the Nust Sports Science department, said major distractions for athletes are alcohol and drugs, which he said have effects on the physiological function and may affect recovery from injury. “Psychologically the Minister is very right. It is imperative that the athlete focuses on what they have to do. Unfortunately in our situation, it is really difficult for athletes to focus on what they have to do when some of the distractions that they face are part and parcel of what their day-to-day training should entail. For example; nutrition, basic equipment or even transport to and from the match venue. It’s easy for the Minister, having come from the American collegiate system where everything is provided, to say that. Try telling that to a girl from Entumbane,” said Ndlovu. He also noted that lack of funding, facilities, which has resulted in indoor sport being played outdoors, and lack of basic equipment also affected athletes. Ndlovu said sufficient sponsorship is key to development of athletes. “Right now, to be honest, outside football and maybe cricket, sport is being run from individuals’ pockets. So there is no way athletes are going to have clear focus on sport. And let’s not forget coaches in all of this; in most sports, coaches are subsidising athletes with transport money, footwear and school fees, among other things. How do we concentrate on coaching? “There is need to provide funding one way or the other so that athletes’ basic needs are taken care of. Once we get that, we need to offer sport science support to our athletes. Let’s make sport a viable employment opportunity and we will get the podium finish athletes we are looking for internationally,” he said. Sports Leaders’ Institute of Zimbabwe (Sliz) president Russell Mhiribidi said: “The development of an athlete is key towards a stable and viable sports industry. To achieve that, there is need for a wholesome approach, which includes having right personnel training athletes and administrators who understand athletes’ needs. “Athlete education is key and that is why you find that, for example, a footballer from a well-structured academy does better compared to one from a community club in terms of behaviour because they are taught well at academies. It’s important to impart life skills to athletes to shape their future.” — @ZililoR