The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
PREMIER Soccer League newbies TelOne FC rounded up their two-week pre-season camp in Gwanda with a 1-2 defeat to Bulawayo Chiefs at Pelandaba Stadium on Saturday. TelOne coach Joel Luphahla was happy with the progress made by his charges. The Gweru-based side played two different teams in either half and went into halftime leading 1-0 courtesy of a strike by former Chicken Inn striker Blessing Sibanda. Chiefs scored two goals in the second half through Farau Matare and new signing Tafadzwa Dhliwayo, who joined the club from Indlovu Iyanyathela. Luphahla said his squad is shaping up and is confident that they will have all the players in their books before the PSL’s provisional registration deadline. The PSL expects clubs to submit their squads for registration by February 22, with the 2019 season kicking off on March 30. “We chose Gwanda because of its good weather and the soft Pelandaba Stadium turf, which is not over used. These have been a good two weeks where we managed to have uninterrupted team building and bonding sessions after bringing on board new players,” said Luphahla. “Besides the bonding aspect, which is key in football, we also worked on physical conditioning of players as well as combinations. I’m happy with the progress we’ve made and with time running out, we will continue working on the combinations, knocking into players the type of football we want to play in our debut season. “We’re aware that the first year won’t be easy, but we are trying to prepare the boys in a way that will put them at ease and not under any pressure when the games start. We’ve brought on board just a few players with Premiership experience to guide the players through the turbulent PSL waters. Our squad has a lot of unknown players that we want to give an opportunity to shine and make a mark. We don’t have many finished products; these are players eager to show that they can play football and that’s how we were given a chance at Highlanders when we came to the first team,” Luphahla said. The former Zimbabwe international hopes the unheralded players, who are the core members of his squad, emulate him and set the PSL alight. He has brought on board experienced players, among them ex-Tsholotsho and Bulawayo City’s Trust Nyabinde, James Jam, formerly with Harare City and Chapungu, and former Highlanders’ striker Jacob Muzokomba. Striker Tafadzwa Sibanda, who had a loan stint with Highlanders last year, Blessing Sibanda and ex-Tsholotsho forward Motsafa Ponyera, wingers, ex-Tsholotsho player Mcebisi Moyo and Takudzwa Mahori from Caps United, were also brought on board. They also have 17-year-old attacking midfielder Kuda Munetsi, midfielders Fortune Nkala, Leeroy Rwokuda, Paddy Nyamatanga, striker Beven Kandani as well as central defender Stephen Phiri, who were retained from last season’s squad. TelOne are also chasing after the youthful trio of Kudzai Stephen Jaison from an unnamed lower division club in Gweru, FC Platinum Under-19 left-back Kelvin Mangiza and national Under-20 midfielder Tatenda Muringani. — @ZililoR.