The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
THE First Lady Amai Auxilia Mnangagwa yesterday launched the integrated environmental schools project for Bulawayo province at KG V1 School in Bulawayo in an effort to promote environmental sustainability in communities. The environmental programme is being spearheaded by the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry, the Environmental Management Agency (EMA) and the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management to promote environmental cleanliness and nutrition. Amai Mnangagwa was also taken around the school’s environmental projects which include an orchard, fishery ponds and a waste management project. The First Lady, the Minister of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Prisca Mupfumira and Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Judith Ncube planted trees as part of the environmental programme. Speaking at the launch, Amai Mnangagwa said the integrated environmental programme was a noble initiative which brings together environment, water and climate issues to address community challenges. “The main aim of this programme is promote environmental sustainability across all sectors of life. Environmental resources are the natural capital God gave us for all livelihood options. Zimbabwe is a member of various multi-lateral environmental agreements which are meant to promote a unified approach in dealing with the myriad of environmental challenges facing the world,” said Amai Mnangagwa. She said Zimbabwe has recognised the indispensable value of the environment in promoting economic turnaround particularly during the new dispensation era in which the country is profiling itself for international investment. “I’m happy to observe that the Environment Ministry has recognised my passion for the environment and bestowed upon me the role of patron for the environment. As a patron, allow me to reiterate my allegiance to do all I can for the environment and the people of Zimbabwe. Let’s work together as a team. We reap what we sow and if we invest in a good environment we’ll enjoy the good fruits but if we destroy it, we’ll be victims of a poor and unproductive environment,” said the First Lady. She said it was high time the country works towards attaining a clean, safe and healthy environment as well as teaching children, through practising the right actions for sustainable development. “Today’s launch is not a product of one entity. The Ministry is coordinated and moving as a team, with each player running on a defined role. “As we toured the school, I realised that it now has clean water, fish ponds for aqua culture, an orchard as well as mechanisms to prevent pollution through waste collection for recycling. Such an integrated approach ensures access to clean water from boreholes, food security and nutrition from the aqua culture, fruit orchard and garden,” said the First Lady. She said it was the nation’s aspiration for every school in Zimbabwe to be equipped with these facilities, not only for educational purposes but as a source of food and income for the school and community around. “This is the fifth school to benefit from this programme after Bulu in Ingwizi, Matabeleland South, Chidengo in Shamva, Mashonaland Central, Mutendi High School in Masvingo and Umzururu in Mashonaland West. “I’m happy with the new syllabus which emphasises action based learning incorporating environmental issues in our schools. However, I implore the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education to also infuse environmental education into the extra curriculum activities,” said the First Lady. Minister Mupfumira said her ministry was committed to empowering communities. “We need to promote a healthy ecosystem. If we take care of the environment it will take care of us. It’s important for our livelihoods. I would like to encourage communities to have consolidated community gardens. The fisheries are also important for nutrition and health. We need to work as a team and establish projects that evolve around water,” said Minister Mupfumira. She commended the First Lady for leading many projects that bring development to the country and better the people’s livelihoods. —@pamelashumba1