The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
TORONTO FC’s future in the Zifa Southern Region Division One League hangs in balance as the Pumula East-based side is in dire need of sponsorship to see them through the season. Toronto are hoping to have another dance in the First Division after escaping relegation by a whisker when they finished their maiden season on 14th place, above ZRP Bulawayo Province and NRZ Leopards of Dete. Gift “Ghetto” Nkala, one of Toronto’s founders and coach, said they are appealing for sponsorship that will cover their affiliation fees, referees’ fees and travelling costs for away games. “We started training last Saturday with the hope of getting a sponsor to fund us in the First Division. We have a group of talented players, mostly 23-year- olds and below. During our first year we were learning the ropes and now the guys are mature and can effectively compete to market themselves,” said Nkala. He said he looked forward to the youngsters being snapped up by big clubs. Nkala said the project was about giving the youngsters a platform to showcase themselves. “The project’s survival is now under threat because we don’t have resources to compete in Division One. We are appealing to well-wishers and the corporate world for support. All we need is affiliation fees, money for travelling and other match-related expenses,” he said. To register with Zifa Southern Region, Toronto needs $2 000 affiliation fees, $500 for 25 players’ licences and $250 for the technical team members. The Zifa Southern Region Division One League is made up of teams from Bulawayo and Matabeleland North provinces, meaning Toronto will need resources to travel for games in Hwange, Victoria Falls and Turk Mine. Victoria Falls has one club, Mosi Rovers while Hwange has ZPC Hwange, ambitious Makomo, Moto Moto and newly promoted Nengasha Stars. There is also Binga Stars promoted from Zifa Matabeleland North Province. Should Toronto fold, they will join Zim Leopards, who surrendered their franchise to Zifa Southern Region last month. Toronto have up to February 25 to pay affiliation fees. — @ZililoR