The Chronicle Andile Tshuma SUBSTANCE abuse is a public health problem globally. One would always feel that Bulawayo is safe, but the phenomenon is wreaking havoc in the city with many youths watching helplessly as their futures and dreams get destroyed after succumbing to addictive substances having started taking them just for “harmless” fun. The prevalence of substance abuse among youth is alarming. The problem not only harms individuals but also negatively affects families and society. Drug abuse in children and teenagers may pose a greater hazard than in older people. This is because their brains are not yet fully developed. As a result, the brains of young people may be more susceptible to drug abuse and addiction than adult brains. With the headache of drug abuse amongst young people, schools are no longer safe havens in Bulawayo, and in cities generally around the country have become incubation hubs for junkies. Youths puffing all sorts of concoctions in alleys and street corners is becoming common scene in the city and this must be worrying for many parents and concerned citizens in general. There are many signs that a teen is using drugs. It can be difficult to tell the difference between the pangs of adolescence and actual drug use, but parents can be proactive in talking to their teen to find out what’s going on. Some common signs of teen drug abuse include bad grades bloodshot eyes, laughing for no reason, loss of interest in activities, poor hygiene, diminished personal appearance, avoiding eye contact, frequent hunger, smell of smoke on breath or clothes, secretive behaviour, unusual tiredness and missing curfew. The alcohol and substance abuse menace has caught the eye of the health and child care ministry which has begun to take mitigatory steps for the fight against the phenomenon. Government must be commended for its commitment to set up a taskforce in an attempt to deal with alcoholism and substance abuse in the county. Health and Child Care Minister, Dr Obadiah Moyo, speaking at an Alcohol and Substance Abuse Workshop last week, said his ministry was determined to end alcohol and substance abuse in the country. He said government was concerned about the growing trends of alcohol and substance abuse, and was seized with the matter of having good facilities that conformed to international standard practice for treating patients suffering from disorders associated with substance abuse. To put the matter into perspective, the minister revealed that alcohol and substance abuse was ranked among the top three diagnosis problems in all the 10 provinces of Zimbabwe in 2018. “Alcohol and Substance use also results in intentional and unintentional injuries. In Zimbabwe 1000 people a year die from alcohol related road traffic accidents and 3 000 people sustain substance related injuries,” he said. Dr Moyo said his Ministry was updating and putting in place a mental health strategy and urged all Zimbabwean stakeholders to play a role in increasing awareness in drug and substance abuse. The trend is growing and is tearing at the moral fibre of both old and young. However, its impact is most felt among the youth as their lives are destroyed from the onset, with fewer chances of successful reformation. We need standard worldwide rehabilitation centres to deal with alcohol and substance abusers, to help them get treatment and recover from addictions in a supportive environment. An unemployed, uneducated or troubled young man from a broken family is what many picture when drug addiction is discussed. As the popularity of cough syrups steadily seeps into families and communities that are considered stable, this is proving to be less so. Even the most unlikely people are falling victim to it. Substance abuse is every parent’s nightmare and rightly so because it destroys marriages, families and other relationships. It also destroys the victim’s emotional, social, mental and physical health and can sometimes lead to that individual’s death. The problem remains a myth to many until it strikes closer to home. It cuts across the social divide and respects no colour, creed, gender or class. Artistes, sportspersons, teachers and a whole lot of people from all walks of life in communities have fallen prey to this monster and met their demise. It involves the abuse of drugs by the affluent as well as the poor. At Centenary Park in Bulawayo you find an eyesore most days during the weeks as school children will be sharing joints of marijuana and in school uniform. Police in Bulawayo have also expressed concern over rampant drug abuse in schools and urged teachers to report all suspected cases. Selling of drugs at the door steps of schools is reportedly resulting in pupils smuggling the substance into classrooms and behaving in a wayward manner. Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango recently urged teachers to play a leading role in fighting substance abuse. “Most children spend their time in school. As police we believe that teachers play an important role in moulding children. Most children who are abusing drugs do so in the school environment. We believe teachers have an important role of monitoring children’s behaviours and if they suspect that some of them are abusing drugs, they should report to us,” she said. Chief Insp Simango said drugs of concern include Broncleer, popularly known as bronco, dagga and cakes laced with drugs which have previously been confiscated during arrest of drug peddlers. She said a multi-stakeholder approach is required in addressing drug abuse in the city. “We have done a lot of campaigns to address the drug abuse problem in Bulawayo. We have engaged parents to report the suspected cases as the alleged drug peddlers are part of the community. “To rid society of such criminals calls for everyone’s participation because drugs are a threat to society. Some of the children who abuse drugs are also involved in criminal activities,” she said. Bulawayo provincial affairs minister Cde Judith Ncube is on record lamenting the adverse effects of substance abuse in Bulawayo schools. She called for a multi stakeholder approach in tackling the problem which is destroying not only health but futures as well. Society in general, churches, youth clubs, city fathers, politicians and traditional leaders should take a strong stance against drug abuse otherwise we will lose a whole generation to this monster. To the youth; beware, drug abuse not only kills but spoils your future kills. Parents take note; drug abuse is real and drugs are readily available. — @andile_tshuma.