The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
FOUR females, two of them minors were raped in Bulawayo’s western suburbs within two days with one of the women being gang-raped by four unknown assailants who had offered her transport. The rape cases occurred on Friday and Saturday two weeks ago in Nkulumane, Pumula, Nketa and Emganwini suburbs. Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango said the youngest victim of sexual violence was a girl aged 14 while the other is a 15-year- old girl. She said one of the older women was attacked and robbed of $400 and a cellphone while the other one was gang-raped while going home from a sports bar. “Police in Bulawayo are worried with the increase of rape cases happening in western areas during the night. The cases involve relatives, neighbours and co-tenants. Some of the cases occur in secluded places, bushy areas, old buildings and residential areas. Between 25 January and 26 January 2019, we have received four cases of rape which occurred in the western suburbs of Nkulumane, Pumula, Nketa and Emganwini,” said Chief Insp Simango. “The first case involves a woman aged 25 who was raped while coming from a beer garden. She was gang raped by four unknown male adults who offered her a lift from Amarula Night Club to Mbundane. When they reached a bushy area between Masotsheni (Emganwini) and Mbundane the driver stopped the car and pulled her out before they took turns to rape her.” She said the second victim was a 39-year-old woman who was sexually violated and robbed of her cellphone and $400 near Hlalani Kuhle/Garikai area. Chief Insp Simango said the woman’s attacker threatened to stab her with an empty bottle and forced himself on her before escaping. She said the two minors, 14 and 15 years of age were attacked by males they knew. “The third victim a female juvenile aged 14, approached a male adult asking for a place to sleep overnight as she had left home after an argument with her mother. The man took her home and left the complainant in the company of his brother who is 25 years old. The brother then demanded for sexual intercourse but was turned down. He then forcibly held the complainant and raped her once,” she said. Chief Insp Simango said the other girl was sexually violated by another teenager aged 17 who lives Pumula North just like her. She said the teenager sexually violated the minor while wearing a condom. The police spokesperson urged women to be careful while travelling in secluded places. “Police in Bulawayo are appealing to members of the public to avoid using short cuts in bushy areas, entertaining strangers, boarding of unregistered motor vehicles, leaving young children with any male adult whether he is a relative or a neighbour as this will help to reduce these cases. “We encourage parents to have time with their children so that they will be able to open up to them. Parents are also advised to report any case of abuse and never sweep it under the carpet,” she said.—@nqotshili