The Chronicle Eddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau
MASHONALAND Eagles coach Stuart Matsikenyeri is excited by his team’s all-round performances following a dominant performance in the back-to-back Pro-50 Championship victories over Mountaineers in Mutare at the weekend. Eagles, who are the most successful side in this limited overs competition since the franchise era, are positioning themselves for a fifth title after cementing their place at the top. Regis Chakabva’s century on Saturday and another half-ton the following day secured maximum points and an unbeaten run stretching four games. Their tally of 15 points should be enough to clinch one of the two spots for this year’s final set for March 8. Eagles thrashed recently-crowned Logan Cup champions Mountaineers convincingly by 127 runs after posting 302/8, thanks to fine batting by Chakabva (105) and Elton Chigumbura (59). They then defended a low total of 181 in the reverse match to clinch a tense one-run victory on Sunday with Chamu Chibhabha (3/24), Richard Ngarave (2/28) and debutant Daniel Jakiel (2/47) doing most of the damage. “I think we played on quite a good wicket on Saturday and the overall result suggests that the guys did quite well. “Scoring 300-plus against a good side such as Mountaineers is always a positive indicator. It’s very easy to single out our batsmen led Chakabva and Elton Chigumbura because they were outstanding but on the other hand it was also about the game plan being followed well. “The bowling was brilliant and the fielding was superb on Saturday. They made it difficult for them to chase in both games. ‘’And coming into the Sunday game, the wicket turned out to be more difficult and it was more about the bowling performance as a unit,” said Matsikenyeri. He was also impressed by Jakiel who made a late debut at 28. Jakiel recorded his best bowling figures of 3/40 in his first match on Saturday and followed up with a 2/47 on Sunday. “Daniel did very well in his first game. He did what was required of him, which is to get wickets. He was slightly on the expensive side at the start but we had expected that to happen. “He obviously has a lot to learn and should he get more opportunities to play, I have no doubt that he will get better. “But certainly at the top of the innings he did what was required of him, striking for us when he took his first wicket with his second ball, which is brilliant. “We had obviously wanted him to play more of a role at the death which in the first game we never really got there but in the second we did and he performed a good job,” said Matsikenyeri. Pro50 Championship Points Table M W L T N/R PT NRR
Eagles 4 3 0 0 1 15 1.011
Tuskers 3 2 0 0 1 11 1.587
Rhinos 4 1 3 0 0 4 -0.778
Mountaineers 3 0 3 0 0 0 -1.076