The Chronicle Blessings Chidakwa in Kadoma
GOVERNMENT departments charged with ensuring the maintenance of high safety standards should thoroughly inspect mining areas to preserve the lives of mine workers, First Lady Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa has said. She also called on Government to enforce stiff laws and penalties on miners who continue operations when they have been advised to stop for safety reasons. The First Lady was speaking after visiting the Battlefields Mine disaster site in Mhondoro-Ngezi where she consoled and donated an assortment of food hampers to bereaved families. Twenty-four artisanal miners perished when shafts and tunnels at Silvermoon and Cricket No. 3 Mines were flooded on Tuesday last week after a heavy downpour in the area. Eight other miners were rescued after spending four days neck-deep in water after the floods. “Our children will be looking for survival means as most are now fathers looking after their families. However, l would like to implore the mine owners, Ministry of Mines and Mining Development officials and the Environmental Management Agency that mines like this need thorough inspection. “Government should enforce stiffer laws to mine owners who ignore directives to stop mining operations since they should strictly adhere to that,” she said. Amai Mnangagwa urged security forces and Government leaders across Zimbabwe to monitor the mines that pose danger while ensuring that dangerous mines are closed. “We are saddened due to the loss of these children, we never thought that on a day like this we would be gathered here. I want to applaud Mashonaland West Province for your unity and hard work during the rescue and retrieving process. “You managed to offer assistance regardless of political or personal backgrounds. I also want to applaud major local mining firms like Zimplats as well as individuals whose helping hand has gone a long way in assisting the miners,” she said. “The deceased were still very young coming across all over the country some from Mt Darwin, Mutoko, Gokwe; this mining place was unifying all the people.” She said the burden of such disasters became heavier when the deceased leave behind children, worsening already existing problems. “Take it upon yourselves to accept that this has happened. To those whose relatives they have not accounted for, we don’t know how our God operates, maybe they might be rescued like what happened to the other eight,” she said. “God willing, if those still trapped are rescued we will live together with them, but not knowing God’s plans if He has decided otherwise we hope to be afforded a chance to give them decent burials.” In her welcome address, Mashonaland West Provincial Affairs Minister Mary Mliswa-Chikoka applauded the First Lady for sparing time in her busy schedule to meet with bereaved families. “I want to thank the First Lady for the love that she has shown to this province by coming to console us during this difficult time when we have lost artisanal miners who were seeking their fortune,” she said. Minister Mliswa-Chikoka also hailed President Mnangagwa for declaring the tragedy a State of Disaster, assisting the province to rescue the artisanal miners and giving decent burials to the deceased. Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira expressed the provincial leadership’s gratitude towards the assistance the First Lady gave to the bereaved families. Also, among the Government officials who attended the function yesterday was Mines and Mining Development Minister Winston Chitando and his deputy, Polite Kambamura.