The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
OLD Miltonians put up a spirited performance to edge Highlanders 17-12 and book a place in the final of the Bulawayo Metropolitan Rugby Football Board Under-21 tournament at Hartsfield on Saturday. They will face defending champions Matabeleland Warriors in the final. OMs beat Highlanders despite playing the better part of the game a player down after captain Innocent Ncube was shown a red card for verbally abusing the referee. OMs scored three tries through Tanaka Chikaka, Fortune Khumalo and Zifisozethu Moyo, with only one conversion kick by Praymore Sadomba. Exalted Tomu and Bukhosi Ncube each scored a try for Highlanders and Oswald Msimanga made one conversion kick. Old Miltonians coach Takunda Katsukunya was happy that his charges managed to put aside shoddy preparations and exact revenge on Highlanders, who beat them 19-15 during the group stage. “Obviously we are happy that we are in the final, but it’s going to be a tight game. Playing a team that beat us in last year’s final and also beat us during the group stage isn’t easy. We have to work hard and ensure that we come up with a perfect game plan. If we apply ourselves the way we’ve been doing lately, I’ve no doubt that we can win. It’s all about self-belief and hard work,” said Katsukunya. Warriors beat OMs 17-12 in last year’s final. Warriors’ coach Kudakwashe Nyakufaringwa said despite beating OMs 20-15 during the group games, their dominance is not guaranteed. “They will want to wrestle the title away from us, but what is key for us is to keep our cool and continue working hard. All we want to do is to defend our title. The attitude of the boys has carried us through and they understand the importance of winning the Under-21 trophy. They want to be champions and to be champions they have to work hard and win the final,” said Nyakufaringwa. Warriors are unbeaten in four matches to the final. They hammered Bulldogs 56-7 in the opening game, followed by a 28-5 victory over Highlanders and then capped the group games with a 20-15 win against OMs. At the weekend, Warriors posted a 45-10 win over Bulldogs. On the other hand, OMs’ road to the final saw them starting the group stage with a 15-19 defeat to Highlanders before winning 27-3 against Bulldogs and losing 20-15 to Warriors. — @ZililoR.