The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
GERMANY-based former national team defender George Mbwando on Monday paid homage to ex-Highlanders and Warriors midfielder Johannes Ngodzo whose blossoming career was cut short by an injury. Ngodzo’s promising career went up in flames when he was only 23-years-old after picking up an injury when the Warriors played in an African Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier against Eritrea on July 5, 2003, at the National Sports Stadium. Writing on a Facebook page called “crazy football stories of our time”, Mbwando went down memory lane, reminiscing on how Ngodzo “embarrassed” him as he nutmegged him thrice at a national team training session. This was when the Warriors were preparing for the 2004 Afcon qualifier against Mali at the National Sports Stadium which Zimbabwe won 1-0 courtesy of a Lazarus Muhoni goal. Ngodzo was the architect of the goal, eliminating a couple of Mali players with his trademark signature dribbling skill before making a quick turn, climbing on the ball, jumping off and using his left leg to pull the ball as if he was signing his signature on the pitch. After that, he released the ball to the legendary Peter Ndlovu, who threaded a pass to Muhoni to tap home. That game turned those who doubted Ngodzo’s talent into his supporters, and one of them is Mbwando. They later became friends, according to Ngodzo, and every time they went for national duty, Mbwando would bring the Bosso footie gifts like soccer boots and other personal goodies. Mbwando described Ngodzo as a “very nice and humble guy, a rare talent” and a player he enjoyed watching. Below, is Mbwando’s story on “Tshisa” as Ngodzo is affectionately known. “Sometime in 2003, I went for national duty with the national team. It was the same programme every time; Monday evening everyone should be in camp. I arrived at Cresta Lodge (Harare) around 8 o’clock in the evening. As I was collecting my keys I saw a guy sitting on a chair some metres away from the reception wearing a round hat, biting a matchstick. I didn’t know him, I’d never met him and he was very quiet. He didn’t talk to anyone although there were a few players around him.
“He stood up and walked to the rooms; he had a limping step. When he walked past, he just looked at me and nodded his head towards me and I did the same. The following day on our way to training, the guy was in the bus wearing his hat and biting a matchstick and I remember asking Gidiza (Ronald Sibanda), who was sitting next me, who that guy was and he said “NguTshisa lo”. He started smiling and said nothing. “He (Ngodzo) used to tie his shoelaces above his ankles. This time, he removed his hat and had no match stick. In the national team training it was dog eat dog, you should mark your territory as early as possible so I used to train with six iron studs. Many players knew that I never pulled my leg back in training, it was always hardcore. “No one warned me about Tshisa. There was a small crowd cheering him every time he got the ball. We were playing 5-aside and I was playing against Tshisa’s team. He got the ball and I was already down going for a tackle. Tshisa was stepping on the ball with his left foot. He jumped and with his right foot rolled the ball in-between my legs with his studs. I missed everything, the man and the ball. I remember seeing the ball rolling past my face while I was on the ground and I twisted my ankle in the process and Tshisa bended the ball to the far post. “He got the ball again and this time I didn’t go down, I stayed on my feet, I wanted to get him the moment he stops the ball. He didn’t even stop the ball, his first touch just rolled the ball between my legs with the studs and it was too late he was already behind me by the time I turned. I’ve never seen a football player who could sign a ball like him. “I remember Rahman Gumbo stopping play for a moment because he was laughing a lot. I looked at him and he said “Ngu Tshisa lo”. After training he was wearing his hat again and matchstick on the lips. I went into the bus and he looked at me smiling and said quietly “sorry bhudaz” and I said that’s how the game is played, no worries and we started speaking in Ndebele. “He was a very nice guy, humble and a rare talent. I was an instant Tshisa fan. We played against Mali and it was fun. I even enjoyed watching him play, he danced with the ball, he had everything except speed. He was a street footballer, a pure talent. He matched Seidou Keita in every way on that day. Unfortunately he stopped playing because of a knee injury. His name was Johannes Ngodzo. Tshisa, wherever you are, all the best, it was an honour playing with you in your short career. Crazy Stuff!!” **Tomorrow we speak to Ngodzo. Grab your copy of The Chronicle. — @ZililoR.