The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
ZANU-PF secretary for administration, Dr Obert Mpofu, is set to lead a delegation comprising senior party officials to restructure Bulawayo province and come up with strategies to address the political challenges affecting the province. In an interview yesterday, Dr Mpofu said a number of meetings have been lined up, with the first one scheduled for this weekend. “I’m leading a team of senior people from head office to address the political challenges affecting Bulawayo province and set up meaningful structures. We’re meeting this weekend to start the restructuring process, where we’ll deploy people to all zones in the province. “We’ll also come up with strategies that will bring development not only to the party but to the province as a whole. We expect maximum co-operation from the province during the process. We’ve realised that it’s possible to win the elections if we work as a team,” said Dr Mpofu. He said Bulawayo South Member of Parliament Cde Raj Modi won the Parliamentary seat and showed people that it was possible for Zanu-PF to win elections in Bulawayo. “Cde Modi did the right thing by not only appealing to the masses to give him a chance but to show them that he was capable of bringing development to Bulawayo. “We’ll combine the strategies and make sure we implement them as we gear up for the 2023 elections. Politics is about people. If people understand our strategies we’re bound to get good results. “I have lived in Bulawayo for decades and I have an idea of what the people of Bulawayo want, which is development,” said Dr Mpofu. He said the strategies may not give the party instant positive results but he was optimistic that going into the future, the fruits will be realised. Dr Mpofu emphasised the need for party members to stop chasing after positions in the party but work with others to bring development to Bulawayo. “Chasing after positions is not a good political strategy. This creates divisions in the party and limits development. People should therefore worry less about positions and concentrate on making Zanu-PF a better party and Bulawayo a progressive and productive province. “There’s a lot we can do for Bulawayo. People need employment, our industries and businesses need to be revived and this is our responsibility,” said Dr Mpofu. — @pamelashumba1