The Chronicle Esinathay Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter
UNITED Refineries’ Chief Executive Officer Mr Busisa Moyo has bemoaned the extent of damages suffered by Bulawayo businesses during last month’s opposition-led protests. Through his Twitter account, Mr Moyo who is also a member of the Presidential Advisory Council (PAC) said the damage of retail shops especially in high-density areas was extensive. MDC Alliance youths last month went on a rampage, looting shops, destroying infrastructure and attacking police and ordinary citizens during a three-day stayaway organised by the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions. The orgy of violence and mayhem unleashed mainly in the city’s western suburbs saw business people losing stock and property worth millions of dollars. “This shopping complex with about six shops in Entumbane was looted and then set alight. The damage is extensive. Tills and shelving were taken by looters,” Mr Moyo tweeted. He participated in a tour of some of the affected businesses on Friday with an inter-ministerial taskforce that was being led by Finance and Economic Development Minister,Dr Mthuli Ncube. “All the people that worked here are now at home and without work. De-industrialising and now de-retailing of a city is a painful experience,” he said. He said over 150 shops were targeted and Entumbane was the worst hit, losing properties and goods worth $4 million. In Lobengula, goods and property worth $3,5 million were lost. Mr Moyo said during the tour he was told by a business owner that the looters appeared well organised. “A business owner related to me how an advance team of looters had bolt cutters, crow bars and angle grinders and cut his store open. They also had explosives and equipment to burst any safe or strong room open. He managed to get his money from only one of four shops,” he said. “The pharmacy in Cowdray Park was completely looted of medicines and drugs and the owner was brutally attacked by the rioters. He was slashed with a knife and struck with bricks. “Some shop owners have started to rebuild from own funds but at a low pace.” During the tour last Friday, Minister Ncube said Government would avail $19,5 million from a special fund set up to assist businesses that were looted and destroyed during last month’s violent protests. The Minister, who was leading an inter-ministerial taskforce that was on a tour to assess the extent of the damage caused by the violent protests, said he was shocked by the extent of the damage he saw. —@esinathy _essira