The Chronicle Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau
THE National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe believes this year’s JM Busha Triangular Series is going to be a game-changer for their track and field competition with each of the three legs sponsored to a tune of $10 000. The series was introduced in 2017. Last year it was shelved to try and improve the series. As the series returns this month, with the first leg scheduled for February 16 in Bulawayo, NAAZ president Tendai Tagara said they are hopeful of a better event. “We only had it first year in 2017 when we had prizes in the final competition. We shelved it last year to make it more spectacular and that’s why now we have prize money at each event. ”This one is a game-changer,” said Tagara. The second leg will be in Mutare, in April, and Harare hosts the last one in June. Each competition will have 10 events – 100m, 200m, 400m, 400m hurdles, 1 500m, 5 000m, long jump, javelin, high jump and 4x100m relay. “There are some events that are permanent on the circuit and some rotate for example, 100m and 200m are permanent. ”But 1 500m, 800m and 400m hurdles rotate with another event. This is to give other events an opportunity and give our athletes an opportunity. “We want to use the events as selection meetings for international competitions, like Africa Youth and Junior Championships, African Games, regional and world championships. “For example, the first event in Bulawayo is a selection meeting for Africa Junior. After that a provisional team for Africa Youth and Junior will be announced. Earlier announcement helps kids and administration to focus on preparations,” said Tagara. NAAZ got into a partnership with JM Busha 54 Races in 2017, expected to run for four years and the latter have been sponsoring a number of activities including the JM Busha International Peace marathon. “These are the Zimbabwean business people who walk the talk…We call upon other business communities to come on board now rather than coming in the last year of the Olympics. Let’s set the foundation now,” said Tagara. Bulawayo Athletics Board chairman, Manuel Mpofu, believes the series will go a long way in motivating track and field athletes. Meanwhile, the national cross-country championships will be held today in Kwekwe with all provinces expected to be represented. Bulawayo are the defending champions. “We sent 11 athletes and two coaches. This time we are not worried in terms of the title but for these athletes to qualify for the next stage, which is Denmark. “We have been champions for so many times, so now the focus is to make these athletes make a grade at international level,” said Mpofu.