The Chronicle Lenox Lizwi Mhlanga THE Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) celebrates 60 years of existence this year and already, preparations are in full throttle. The show will take place from the 23rd to the 27th of April 2019 under the theme: “Propagating Industrial Growth through Trade and Investment.” ZITF acting general manager, Nicholas Ndebele, has said that the annual business showcase will focus on the inclusion of previously excluded groups apart from its usual thrust of attracting foreign participants. This should be good news to the Bulawayo community who for years have complained about ZITF being a show for the “big guns.” Though I should emphasise that the expo has in the last few years opened up to small businesses, it is this tacit announcement by management that there will be deliberate efforts to ensure that the so-called small fry also benefit which is exciting. We are yet to hear what measures are in place to make the trade fair more friendly to SMEs and other previously marginalised sectors. This should be a boon for entrepreneurs eager for a boost to their fortunes in an economy that has largely been challenging for many. Like has been the custom for me, I have found it necessary to dole out advice as to how businesses can take advantage of the opportunities presented by exhibitions such as ZITF. From the onset, one should realise that exhibition is but a tool in the hands of an entrepreneur to market and grow his or her business. This entails a clear understanding of what an exhibition is all about. Lest a participant suffer from a crisis of expectations as to what their investment in taking part should yield. Simply put, the ZITF is one big marketplace. The major advantage of this particular showcase is that it is a multi-sectoral exhibition. That is, it brings different sectors of the economy on one site. These sectors include those from Government, businesses in industry, commerce, mining, technology, education, hospitality, and agriculture. So you take your pick, everyone will be represented there. So depending on what your business is, when you pick your poison, and more importantly, your strategy, you will find the ZITF a godsend. Remember, I mentioned planning. It is important to plan how you are going to use this invaluable platform for the benefit of your business. The question you should ask yourself is, what is it that I want to do at ZITF or during that period when the whole country’s economy might literally move to Bulawayo. You could be launching your business or a new product, or just keen on generating leads through networking. Some attend to do market and industrial intelligence, that is to get inspired to formulate new ideas that can eventually be turned into a form of business proposition. Alternatively, you could be in the service industry eager to take advantage of the thousands that will be trooping to our doorstep before and during that hectic week. Those in the catering and hospitality industry are poised to make a killing. Literally so when they raise prices in order to take advantage of that once off opportunity to get rich. The decision to exhibit should be informed by your preparedness and how deep your pocket is. Without a realistic budget, participating could be a disaster. Preparation means a proper planning session with your team, sharing the budget set aside and also a list of people to invite to your stand. Remember it is the job of ZITF to publicise the show in general. The onus is on you to direct traffic to your stand by personally targeting your prospects and setting appointments. If there are any events that you plan to stage during the event, then hiring event managers in good time is also important. Not forgetting the elephant in the room. Setting up the exhibit is both a specialised take and is time sensitive. Designs, collaterals and other issues related to participating such as hotel and transport bookings are done like yesterday. Doing things at the last minute and expecting the ZITF staff to perform miracles on your behalf is the root cause of show stress. The helpful staff at the ZITF are there to guide you. Make it a point to attend their pre-show workshops so that you don’t get any surprises. Hire competent event managers and stand designers and more importantly train the staff that will be at your stand. I always say that participating at the ZITF is a labour of love. If your heart is in it and you adequately prepare in good time, including crossing all the T’s, you will be richly rewarded. Don’t hesitate to seek experts like us for assistance though we don’t come cheap, of course. That should be part of your budget. If you intend on being part of the ZITF’s silver jubilee in 2019 and you haven’t started preparing, then forget it. There is no harm attending as a visitor to check out how others do it. In any case, not all of us want to exhibit, but we should want to network and gain business contacts. Whichever it is that you choose, don’t miss out on the action.