The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu/ Walter Mswazie, Chronicle Correspondents
PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa is set to address a Thank You Rally at Pelandaba Stadium in Gwanda on Friday. He decided to hold the rallies countrywide to thank Zimbabweans for overwhelmingly voting for him and Zanu-PF in last year’s harmonised polls. Addressing heads of government departments during a preparatory meeting held in Gwanda yesterday, Matabeleland South Provincial Administrator Ms Sithandiwe Ncube said all planning committees had been activated. Various committees also gave feedback on the progress they had made and outstanding work. “It has been confirmed that President Emmerson Mnangagwa will be holding a ‘thank you’ rally at Pelandaba Stadium, Matabeleland South Province on Friday 8 February. All committees are now on the ground and they are planning for this event. “As heads of government departments can you communicate with one another on outstanding works that have to be done so that this event can be a success,” she said. In Masvingo, Zanu-PF provincial leaders have started preparing for the President Mnangagwa’s “Thank You” rally to be held at Rutenga Growth Point in Mwenezi East next week. The exact date of the rally is yet to be announced. The party’s provincial information and publicity secretary Cde Ronald Ndaba said the province was eager to host its icon, President Mnangagwa. “We have started preparations for the coming of our icon, President Mnangagwa to Rutenga Growth point grounds in Mwenezi East,” said Cde Ndaba. He said the President wants to thank the electorate for voting for him and Zanu-PF in last year’s July 30 harmonised elections. “It is always a rare opportunity for the province of Masvingo to host our President given his tight schedule. While we do not have specific dates, we are expecting him anytime soon considering that we were supposed to host him last Friday but failed as he was preoccupied with the national clean-up campaign,” he said. “We are one province where the party is strong as we also did not fail him in last year’s harmonised elections. “We romped to victory in 25 out of 26 constituencies and that only will tell you that Masvingo is united. We also want to show him that we are one.” He urged members to attend the rally in their numbers as the province wanted to send a clear message to the detractors that President Mnangagwa’s support base was strong. “We urge our people to throng Rutenga business centre grounds. We want to send a clear message to our detractors that the party and President Mnangagwa, has strong support, especially here in Masvingo,” said Cde Ndaba. Announcing his plans to hold the Thank You rallies last year, the President said the countrywide tour will enable him to show his appreciation to the people for voting him and Zanu-PF in the July 30 harmonised elections. He said he will also take the opportunity to outline Government’s programme on devolution of power. “We are going to have rallies in your respective areas to thank the people for voting me into power. We will be saying the message of peace that we have been saying all along and we will also announce the plans we have to improve provincial economies because we do not want everything to be centred on Harare,” he said. “We will also take the time to explain devolution to the people.”