The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
GOVERNMENT is set to handover water supply infrastructure, treatment and bulk distribution from the Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa) to four local municipalities as part of the devolution exercise. Four municipalities, Gwanda, Beitbridge, Victoria Falls and Karoi are expected to be the first beneficiaries of the exercise on Devolution of Water Affairs spearheaded by the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing and the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate and Rural Resettlement. In a statement yesterday, Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate and Rural Resettlement Minister Retired Air Marshal Perrance Shiri said the handover was part of Government’s devolution exercise and should not be politicised. “During his inauguration, the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, His Excellency, Cde Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa made a commitment to implement devolution as per Section 264 of the Constitution of Zimbabwe guided by his commitment. A meeting to discuss devolution of Water Affairs was held on the 18th of January 2019 by officials of the two ministries responsible for water and local government,” said Minister Shiri. He said the meeting resolved to start the devolution exercise with four municipalities namely Gwanda, Beitbridge, Victoria Falls and Karoi as they had formally requested to take over treatment and bulk distribution of water from Zinwa in 2016. “The meeting resolved to roll out the Devolution of Water Affairs, starting with the four Urban Local Authorities which had requested to take over water and sanitation services as mentioned. “Zinwa, supported by officials from the two Ministries of Water and Local Government, was tasked to meet with the four urban local authorities for the purpose of discussing the modalities of a smooth handover takeover process,” said Minister Shiri. The Minister said there was no need to politicise the takeover as the handover process was being done within set guidelines. “To date such meetings have been held between Zinwa and two Urban Local Authorities and the process remains work in progress. It is therefore a gross misrepresentation of facts for anyone to politicise or claim credit or ownership of this normal Government programme which is only guided by the Constitution of Zimbabwe and provided for in the Enabling Acts, but it is fully supported at the highest political level,” he said. Minister Shiri said Central Government as represented by the Ministry responsible for Water Resources through Zinwa, has a policy to handover (without abdication) water supply and sanitation services to local authorities when it is satisfied that the requesting local authority has the capacity to run and maintain the water and sanitation services. He said in the event that the requesting Local Authority fails to operate and maintain the services, Central Government would rescind the takeover agreement and direct Zinwa to operate and maintain the water and sanitation services. The Minister said one of the functions of Zinwa is to ensure modalities of a smooth handover/takeover process from and to local authorities. “This function is provided for in terms of Section 5 (e) of the Zinwa Act (Chapter 20:25); to encourage and assist local authorities in the discharge of their functions under the Rural District Councils Act (Chapter (29:13) and the Urban Councils Act (Chapter 29:15) with regard to the development and management of water resources in areas under their jurisdiction and in particular, the provision of potable water and the disposal of waste water,” he said. — @AuxiliaK