The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
HIGHLANDERS players ended their brief stand-off with the club’s executive yesterday afternoon and returned to the pre-season training camp. Seventeen players deserted camp on Tuesday evening after wasting two training days. The players yesterday said their protest was actually over their share of prize money from the league, Chibuku Super Cup and the Kembo Mohadi Charity Shield from last season. According to the players, they had an agreement with the club that they will get 40 percent of the prize money from the Kembo Mohadi Charity Shield and the same percentage for the Chibuku Super Cup and Castle Lager Premier Soccer League in which they finished fifth. Highlanders’ prize for the Chibuku Super Cup was $15 000 and $40 000 for finishing fifth in the league. However, instead of getting a total of $55 000 for the two competitions, Bosso lost half of the prize money to PSL fines and only retained $27 000. Bosso sources said the club still hadn’t been paid for the Kembo Mohadi Charity Shield match which was organised by former Zifa vice-president Vincent Pamire. When the players walked out of camp on Tuesday, they rejected the club leadership’s offer of $100 cushioning allowance for this week while finalising its sponsorship deal. The players held out for $200. “We have lots of responsibilities and the ‘keep goings’ were meant to get management attention because we know that once we start the season, it becomes difficult to get our dues. It wasn’t really about the January salary but our share from the VP Mohadi tournament, Chibuku Super Cup and the league. We are at work here at Highlanders and are committed to serving the club,” said a player. The players held a two-hour meeting with the club yesterday and both parties agreed to deal with the matter while the players go through their pre-season programme. In a statement yesterday, Highlanders confirmed that an agreement had been reached and all issues would be settled in accordance to the club’s laid down procedures. “The two parties resolved the issue amicably and the players will join pre-season camp this evening to continue with their preparations for the new football season. Both parties sincerely regret this unfortunate incident that puts the image of the club, sponsors, its various stakeholders and partners into disrepute. “We wish to apologise for any inconvenience, discomfort and anxiety that may have been caused by this unfortunate incident. We remain committed to presenting a competitive side in the coming season,” reads the statement. The first-leg of the training camp ends tomorrow, with the second-leg kicking off on Sunday at a different venue. — @ZililoR