The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
CAF has provisionally cleared FC Platinum to use Mandava Stadium for their final Total Caf Champions League Group B game against Tunisian side Esperance on condition that they work on a “few” outstanding items at the venue. The Zimbabwe champions, who are virtually out of the continental race with two games remaining, anchor Group B with just a point after four games and are set to play host to defending Total Caf Champions League holders Esperance on March 13. In January, the continental football governing body condemned Mandava, forcing the Zvishavane-based side to move its Total Caf Champions League home matches against South African outfit Orlando Pirates and Guinea’s Horoya to Barbourfields Stadium in Bulawayo. FC Platinum drew 0-0 with Orlando Pirates and lost 1-0 to Horoya in Bulawayo. Caf raised reservations about Mandava’s eligibility to host matches at this level of the competition and cited the stadium’s poor lighting and small size of the media area to host an army of journalists that usually accompany teams at this level.At the beginning of February, Caf sent its delegation to re-inspect Mandava Stadium after the FC Platinum-Horoya game and highlighted areas that need to be worked on at the Zvishavane facility. Zifa spokesperson Xolisani Gwesela confirmed that Caf’s inspection team had provisionally granted FC Platinum permission to use Mandava for the Esperance game. “As Zifa we are delighted that Mandava Stadium has met most of the Caf requirements to host continental football and hope they attend to the few outstanding items in time for the Esperance encounter. The facility (Mandava) has been provisionally homologated to host the last game. The areas that need improvements are the pitch; they have to equip the facility with six flag poles, add five showers in the dressing rooms, create a room for ball boys and flag bearers. There should also be a meeting room and the doping room should have a refrigerator with non-alcoholic drinks as well as mineral water,” said Gwesela. FC Platinum have welcomed the Caf decision, indicating that they are keen to bring continental football to Zvishavane. They played their Total Caf Champions League preliminary round games at Mandava, but the facility fell short to the standards required for group games. “It has always been our wish to play all our Caf Champions League games at Mandava Stadium. Obviously we are excited with the Caf decision to provisionally give us the green light to play our next games at our home. Work is in progress to address the outstanding items and we would like to bring African football to the mining town of Zvishavane. Hosting a team like Esperance in Zvishavane will definitely be exciting for the Zvishavane community,” said Chido Chizondo, FC Platinum’s spokesperson. — @ZililoR