The Chronicle Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent
An apparently sex-starved Bikita man allegedly fatally stabbed a juvenile commercial sex worker whose friend had spurned his sexual advances, police have confirmed. Leonard Gwari (24) of Duma Location, Nyika Growth Point stabbed a sex worker (17) of the same address with an Okapi knife once on the cheek and in the neck. She staggered for 10 metres and died. Masvingo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Charity Mazula said the incident occurred on Thursday last week at around 1am. She said the name of the deceased is being withheld until her next of kin have been informed. “I can confirm receiving a report of murder involving a man and a juvenile commercial sex worker in Bikita. The deceased’s body was taken to Silveira Mission Hospital mortuary for postmortem,” said Chief Insp Mazula. She said the suspect fled the scene, but was arrested after a manhunt. “On the fateful day at around 1AM, Gwari was drinking beer with the two juvenile sex workers, one aged 16 and another aged 17, at High Town Night Club,” she said. She said at around 1:30am, the 16-year-old sex worker whom Gwari was interested in went home and he followed her. Upon arrival at the house, which the two sex workers were sharing, he found his sexual target carrying her friend’s baby. “He made sexual advances but the girl turned him down. This did not go down well with Gwari and a dispute arose, resulting in him assaulting the sex worker with fists and open hands while demanding that she put the baby down,” she said. Later on, the deceased arrived at the house in the company of a client and demanded that Gwari should leave since her friend was not interested in him. Gwari who allegedly looked determined to be intimate with the girl, refused saying he had been spoiling her all night. The now deceased then locked Gwari and her friend in the house after which she called for help from some revellers. Police said upon realising that he was mobbed outside; he broke a window and sneaked out of the room. While outside, he went round the house to where his victim was and allegedly stabbed her once on the cheek and in the neck. “She staggered for about 10 metres, collapsed and died on the spot,” said Chief Insp Mazula. A report was made to Bikita police leading to Gwari’s arrest. @walterbmswazie2