The Chronicle Prosper Dembedza, Harare Bureau
CONTROVERSIAL former Sunday Mail editor Edmund Kudzayi on Saturday appeared in court after he was allegedly found in possession of articles with military style camouflage markings at a police roadblock in Harare. Kudzayi (32) of number 3 Green Valley Heights, Quinton Road, Greystone Park in Borrowdale, Harare, was facing charges of unlawful possession or wearing of camouflaged uniform when he appeared before magistrate Mr Edwin Marecha. He was granted $100 bail and the matter was deferred to March 8. It is alleged that on February 22, the complainant on behalf of the State, a police officer, was on duty at a security roadblock carrying out “stop and search” on motorists along Domboshava road near Winchdon Shops, Borrowdale. Prosecutor Mr Shepherd Makonde told the court that the police officer executed his duties of searching Kudzai who was driving a blue VW Tiguan registration number AEN 5016 after he was stopped. While pulling off the road, it is alleged that Francis Murehwa, a member of the Zimbabwe National Army Military Police who was also on duty, observed an article with military style camouflage markings behind in the rear and alerted the member-in-charge at the roadblock. It is the State’s case that the member-in-charge went on to search Kudzayi’s vehicle and recovered an umbrella and pouch with military style camouflage markings. The court heard that this prompted the officers to arrest Kudzayi who was then escorted to Borrowdale Police Station where a report was made against him. The State further stated that the umbrella and pouch with camouflaged colours are to be produced in court as evidence. A 23-year-old Chitungwiza man was recently convicted of wearing a Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) uniform when he was not a member of the force. Tafadzwa Marumanadzo was convicted of unlawful wearing of camouflage uniform after a full trial by Chitungwiza magistrate Mrs Winfilder Tiatara. Initially, Mrs Tiatara slapped him with a nine months jail term, but suspended three months on condition that he does not commit a similar offence in the next five years. In his defence, Marumanadzo said the uniform belonged to his friend who was a member of ZNA, but had since relocated to South Africa. In 2014 Kudzayi was arrested on charges of undermining the authority of former president Robert Mugabe and subverting or attempting to subvert a constitutionally-elected Government. Kudzayi, who together with his brother Phillip were accused of attempting to subvert a constitutionally-elected Government using a Facebook character Baba Jukwa, had his charges withdrawn before plea in 2015. In 2013 “Baba Jukwa” claimed that then president Mugabe and Zanu-PF had put a US$300 000 bounty on their heads. But in an e-mail dated July 6, 2013 addressed to one Commander Milan, “Baba Jukwa” laughed about how he had made up the bounty claim. Some media organisations, including British newspaper The Guardian, ran stories based on “Baba Jukwa’s” claims. The Facebook page also carried posts of private cell numbers of prominent people and exhorted the public to call them and harass them. Several affected people said they experienced serious trauma in the form of insults and verbal abuse and called for the arrests of the administrators.