The Chronicle Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Ltd
IT’S that time of the year when we take stock of who is really economically happy. Hands up those that are really happy with the economy as at now. Emotions aside let’s get down to some serious introspection. SMEs are complaining
They are saying they are overlooked by all stakeholders, undermined, over regulated and over taxed, underfunded, treated unfairly and neglected. Who are SMEs? Zimra is complaining
The tax man is saying compliance is very minimal and thus affects the treasury function. Who is Zimra? Banks are complaining
This sector is going ballistic on non-performing loans, regulations, limited and unfavourable foreign lines of credit, untrustworthy clientele. Who are banks in this instance? Government is complaining
Government says there is little going into treasury coffers, it needs to safeguard and balance populace interests, other stakeholders not playing ball, its hands are tied. It’s worried about corruption across the economy, lack of cost effective production. Government says it has limited influence besides conducive environment. Do not take it for granted that Government mustn’t complain but who is Government really? Miners and farmers are complaining
They point to neglect, underfunded, over regulated, lack of title deeds, lack of security, high cost of inputs/raw materials, limited skills. Who is your miner/farmer? Policy makers are complaining
They are not getting buy-in from strategic stakeholders both within and without Zimbabwe. Who are policy makers in this country? Politicians are complaining
This influential stakeholder accuses without him/her of sabotage. They take other stakeholders to task on economy. A politician says he/she isn’t being supported enough to influence and execute as third forces are always at play in the grand scheme of things. Who is Mr Politician whether in ruling or opposition/pressure group parties? Businesses are complaining
Businesses are pointing fingers at banks, consumers of imports, Government and other foreign producers like South Africa and China. They say the environment is not conducive at all to produce or the environment is not good enough to thrive and they have a long list of concerns about business in general. In Zimbabwe who is your business person? Foreign parties are crying
World Bank, IMF and other parties are complaining that we are not servicing our debts adequately. Are they fair in their debt availing/relief antics and are they generally motivated by profits or charity? Are we honest in our debts handling issues? Who is your foreign partner? Hoi polloi complaining
The man on the street is winging and mourning about Government policies, foreign parties, business people, bank charges, cash shortages, pricing of goods and services, taxes and levies and also complaining about corruption even though he/she is also involved. At times he isn’t happy about his fellow colleagues on the streets. That’s bad. Who constitutes hoi polloi? Who is right? Who is wrong?
So everyone is complaining about everyone but who is the problem among all these economic stakeholders? As I have written before, you are either the solution or you are the problem. Who is the main actor that has caused all these challenges we are facing since the late nineties? Where is the problem really? Who should shoulder the entire blame? There is one major culprit and he has been doing it for a long time regardless of all these challenges. Year in year out this man is a big letdown. This economical player has put us into this turmoil. Our challenges are as a result of him being in charge of our destiny. That person is the man in the mirror. The man in the mirror is the source of our challenges. It’s about time we asked the man in the mirror to change his ways for a better tomorrow. Let’s ask the man in the mirror to be empathetic. Let’s ask the man in the mirror to be less corrupt, to produce cost effectively, and to be selfless. Let’s ask the man in the mirror to be innovative, reduce poverty, and reduce imports significantly. Let’s ask the man in the mirror to forgo instant gratification, to charge fairly, to craft and implement policies consistence with business needs, to increase ease of doing business, to have integrity in his/her dealings, to be accountable and responsible, ask him to settle debts, be tolerant to the marginalised and less fortunate pockets of the community, to think more about women and youth. Solution: The man/woman in the mirror
Whether we the Government, private companies, churches, political or economic parties etc we are individual human beings first and foremost and it begins with the individual. Go home and look into the mirror and talk to the man that you see in the mirror in a frank, honest and healthy manner. Plead with him/her. Please do humanely possible reach out to that person you see in the mirror. Each one of us really needs to ask the man in the mirror to change his economic ways for increased financial well being for only him and only him alone can release us from these shackles and set us free. The man in the mirror has all the answers. For once stop blaming everyone for all the challenges, take ownership and put the blame where it lies —the man or woman in the mirror. We all need each other as we feed into one main line of economics thus need to be aware of the vital part we play in the grand scheme of things. In this wheel each cog points to a whole system that is inter dependent without, which nothing will function at all. IF YOU LIVE IN BULAWAYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER. IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY: SOS (SWITCH OFF SWITCHES). IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT. -Morris Mpala is the managing director of MoB capital Limited, a Bulawayo headquartered micro-finance institution with footprint across the country.