The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Acting Business Editor
PREPARATIONS for the 60th edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) are underway with 68 percent of the available exhibition space having already been taken up. The annual event, which is organised by the ZITF Company, will take place at the Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre in Bulawayo from April 23-27 under the theme, “Propagating Industrial Growth through Trade and Investment”. In a statement, the company’s acting general manager Mr Nicholas Ndebele said as organisers they were upbeat. “The diamond jubilee show takes place against a backdrop of Zimbabwe’s re-engagement with the international community and renewed impetus to work together to achieve a positive socio-economic outlook for Zimbabwe. “To date, 33 934 square metres of exhibition space, representing a 68 percent occupancy rate, has been taken up by a total of 180 exhibitors,” he said, adding that this compares favourably to the booking situation at the same time last year where 143 exhibitors had taken up 31 584 square metres of space. Mr Ndebele said this year’s theme was a rallying call for industry and commerce to participate in the trade showcase to explore and cement synergies that promote trade and investment. “It aligns itself to Zimbabwe’s economic reconstruction agenda by promoting ZITF 2019 as an opportune engagement platform between and among trading and cooperating partners, potential investors, international and local business people,” he said. Mr Ndebele said foreign interest in the exhibition has been high with confirmed foreign representation coming from Japan, Malawi and Mozambique. From the end of last year, he said ZITF has been engaged in a concerted foreign participation drive that includes one-on-one meetings with a total of 30 foreign heads of missions based in Zimbabwe and representing target countries from Sadc, South America, Asia and previously dormant markets such as Europe and North America. “Additionally, company representatives have also taken part in high-level trade missions such as the Intra-Africa Trade Fair held last month where they had promising meetings with Government officials and businesspeople from African countries such as Botswana, Kenya, Tanzania and Rwanda. “These initiatives complement Government’s efforts where, through the Zimbabwean diplomatic missions abroad, we have been actively engaging potential investors keen to partner with us for mutually beneficial projects. “We are hopeful for a speedy conclusion to these discussions, culminating in trade and investment delegations from the afore-mentioned countries during ZITF 2019.” Mr Ndebele said local interest in the show has also been high particularly from enterprises who wish to use the event as a showcase for home-grown industrial and technology solutions. He said as the country continues on its sustainable industrial development agenda, ZITF 2019 would be an ideal platform for individuals, companies and communities with bankable investment projects to showcase them to potential investors and partners. “Particular emphasis has been placed on previously excluded economic groups with a number of corporates and organisations sponsoring exhibits by women- and youth-owned Small to Medium Enterprises (SMEs). “One such organisation is Homelink which will host 140 women in SME business on their stand. “ZITF 2019 is set to live up to industry’s expectations for productive engagements, beneficial insights and invaluable networking opportunities,” he said. “The trend for ZITF 2019 seems very positive. With the support of the whole of industry, the ZITF Company looks forward to a fruitful and successful trade fair.” Online visitor registration was now open with business visitors wishing to participate at the forthcoming trade fair encouraged to register early and utilise the ZITF mobile app to pre-schedule meetings and maximise value derived from time at the show. — @okazunga