The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
THE UN has said it will continue supporting national peace-building efforts to foster co-existence and peace in Zimbabwe following the recent violent protests. The demonstrations that rocked the country a fortnight ago resulted in many shops being destroyed and looted while a number of people have been arrested. UN Communication Specialist Mr Sirak Gebrehiwot said the UN remains fully engaged with Government and various stakeholders to foster peace and reconciliation. “Upholding rule of law and human rights, adhering to humanitarian principles in public service provision, and maintaining peace are necessary conditions to resolve Zimbabwe’s current socio-economic challenges and to achieve its vision 2030 of becoming an upper middle-income country,” he said. “The United Nations is concerned over the recent spate of violence in Zimbabwe, leaving trails of destruction, looting, mass arrest and detention as well as reported physical violence, rape cases and sexual violence. The United Nations notes the Government’s stated commitment to investigate the reported cases of violence, rape and incidents of unlawful detention, including of minors.” Mr Gebrehiwot called for transparency during investigations to ensure human rights violators face the law. “The investigations should result in holding the perpetrators to account and bringing justice to those affected, assisting families who lost loved ones, ensuring due process of law to those in custody and providing survivors with necessary health, psycho-social and legal services,” he said. He condemned acts of violence during protests saying they infringed on citizens’ human rights that are enshrined in the country’s constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. He said the UN in its thrust to foster peace and reconciliation in Zimbabwe was working hand-in-hand with the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission, as well as the Zimbabwe Human Rights Commission, in an endeavour to forge and promote peace and unity. — @tamary98