The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter
Multi-talented traditional and contemporary musician Hwabaraty (real name Japhet Mlauzi) wants to embark on a journey many Bulawayo artistes have attempted with only a handful succeeding. The 34-year-old, a protégé of veteran musician Jeys Marabini who used to be a dancer and drummer for Amawumbo Dance Ensemble wants to dominate all the nation’s radio music charts this year. Having been nominated for last year’s Skyz Metro FM Music Awards and Roil Bulawayo Arts Award but losing out, the artiste said winning an award this year would be a cherry on top of the icing. To guide him on this journey, Hwabaraty has teamed up with arts enthusiast and promoter Plot Mhako as his manager. With Mhako’s vast experience and links in the arts industry, Hwabaraty believes the two have what it takes to dominate the country’s music industry. While his end goal is to take his music — a fusion of mbaqanga, marabi and jazz — beyond borders, Hwabaraty, who has toured countries like Belgium and Germany, said he appreciates that he needs to first build his name nationally. And he seems to be on the right track as his brand is already visible nationally through his social media presence and various appearances at events across the country. “This is a year of breaking new grounds and tapping into new markets. With the help of my new manager Plot, we want to penetrate the greater part of the country and reach neighbouring countries,” Hwabaraty said. On his partnership with Harare-based Mhako whom he met at last year’s Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards, Hwabaraty said it was one of the greatest decisions that he has made in his career. “Plot saw me performing at the Bulawayo Arts Awards last year and that’s when we linked up. “I’ve been following his works and he’s been following my works as well. “What’s interesting is that we have the same interests which will likely make working together easy,” said Hwabaraty. Together, the two want to bridge the tribal and regional gap and show the nation that Bulawayo artistes are as good as the Harare ones. “I’m Ndebele and Plot is Shona but we’re working together very well. Plot believes that Bulawayo artistes should get the same support the Harare artistes are getting and that’s why he’s working with me.” With three albums to his name Kasi Lami (2006), Woza Nhlanhla (2017) and Isilwane (2018), what sets Hwabaraty apart from the rest is that he is multi-talented. Not only does he sing, dance and play drums, he is also a poet, rapper, and an actor, something that will likely work to his advantage. The musician who recently performed in Namibia at the Kalahari International Festival of Arts (Kifa), as part of efforts to claim his position and take his music outside the country’s borders, said he would be dropping a new album this year. The album features Indonsakusa and Percy (a Bulawayo soul artiste). He said he was still in talks with a South African artiste whom he wants to feature as well as Tocky Vibes and Jah Prayzah. “This album will be a masterpiece and I hope people will enjoy it as I’m going all out with it. I also hope it’ll propel me to greater heights as I want to reach the level of musicians like Jah Prayzah while representing Bulawayo and its culture,” said Hwabaraty. On his mission to build a national fan base, Hwabaraty who gained experience from Amawumbo said he had seen the importance of online presence from his various trips. He has set up a website which consists of his music, bio, gig guide and has press kits to ensure people have easy access to his music. Off music, Hwabaraty said he was working on a movie which he wrote. Titled Sotsha Lami, the movie he said, is a dedication to the late Tawanda “Mapecca” Moyo (former member of Siyaya Arts Group). He said he had not yet set a release date but a trailer of the film will be released soon. Hwabaraty has featured in several plays including Gospel of Othello which saw him perform at the Intwasa Arts Festival and Harare International Festival of the Arts. Besides being a hardworking artiste, Hwabaraty is a family man who married his longtime partner Precious Phiri in a traditional ceremony. They have a daughter together.