The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter
TWO men alleged to be part of rogue protestors who allegedly stoned a police officer to death during violent demonstrations in Bulawayo have been granted bail pending trial by the High Court. Charles Thomas, (54), of Njube suburb and Bernard Sibanda, (18), of New Lobengula were granted $100 bail each by Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Nokuthula Moyo. They were ordered to reside at their given addresses and not interfere with State witnesses as part of the bail conditions. They were also ordered to report at Bulawayo Central Police Station (CID Law and Order Section) twice a week. The accused persons are facing a murder charge in connection with the death of Constable Alexio Maune (32). They were remanded to March 11 pending trial at the High Court. The two accused persons are being represented by Mr Dumisani Dube of Mathonsi Ncube Law Chambers. They allegedly stoned Maune last month while he was on duty in Njube suburb. Maune, who was based at Entumbane Police Station, died the following day on admission to the United Bulawayo Hospitals after being left for dead by the violent protestors. The late cop was one of a number of people who lost their lives during the protests that saw shops being looted and roads being barricaded. In their bail statements, they are denying the charge, arguing that the allegations did not hold water and were unsubstantiated. The two said they were innocent until proven guilty. They also disputed the assertion by the State that they were likely to abscond or endanger safety of the public if granted bail. The State, which was represented by Mr Nqobizitha Ndlovu had opposed bail, arguing that there was no guarantee that the pair would not abscond if released on bail due to the gravity of the alleged offence. According to court papers, on January 14, Thomas and Sibanda were among a group of protestors who were unleashing violence, looting shops and barricading main roads with stones, when they spotted Maune while on duty in police uniform. They confronted the now-deceased and started attacking him. The court heard that Maune fled and sought refuge behind a house in Njube. Sibanda picked up a stone and struck Maune on the head before Thomas and other protestors who are still at large apprehended him. The accused persons and their accomplices allegedly grabbed the deceased and pinned him down while Thomas continuously hit him with a stone as he lay helplessly on the ground. After allegedly attacking Maune they fled from the scene leaving him for dead with blood gushing out of the wound.They proceeded with their public violence spree and Maune was taken to UBH where he succumbed to the injuries the following day. — @mashnets.