The Chronicle Courtney Matende, Midlands Reporter
GWERU-based Bata Shoe Company has created about 290 jobs after the commissioning of a gumboot manufacturing plant last year. The giant shoe manufacturer discontinued production of gumboots and PVC safety boots at the height of the hyper-inflationary period in 2008. There has, however, been a significant demand for safety shoes in the mining and farming sectors, especially, which have been on a recovery path recently. The development prompted Bata to invest over $500 000 in machinery and equipment for the gumboot plant. In an overview of the company set up and performance during a tour of the firm by the Midlands Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Larry Mavima, last week, chief executive officer of Bata Shoe Company, Mr Ehsan Zaman, said they have created jobs by investing in the gumboot plant and increasing the number of retail stores. “We have created 290 jobs and have done some investment in the past three years. “We have increased the number of retail stores from 45 to 93. “We have connected the generator so that when there is no power there is no loss of production. “We have also replaced various shoe machines in the factory,” he said. Bata is one of the largest employers in the country with an estimated 3 000 workforce. Mr Zaman said the new equipment and machinery at the gumboot plant had significantly improved efficiency. “The gumboot plant has been commissioned and we are the only ones having the production in the country. “It is running one shift at the moment but it has the possibility to run three shifts meaning we can support the requirements and probably can reduce the imports from outside. “We have replaced many old equipment and machinery, including compressors that are 30 years old. Our shoe machinery is improving our efficiency,” he said. Mr Zaman said Bata has also started producing products such as popular Pata Pata to promote employment as well as restrict imports. “We last produced Pata Pata in 2008 due to high inflation and we were importing from Malawi because there are some manufacturers in Malawi. “We stopped and started in 2016 and I’m proud to say we have produced almost 1,6 million of Pata Pata and we don’t import anymore. This is giving us employment,” said Mr Zaman. He said they have also partnered with small to medium enterprises in assembling some of their products as a way of empowering the community. Mr Zaman said their products are of good quality and durable.