The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter
RESERVE Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) subsidiary, Homelink Finance, will this year continue rolling out its infrastructural development programme targeting to build houses, Small to Medium Enterprises market stalls and bus termini across the country. The infrastructure development programme is also aimed at modernising the environment in which people live and do business. In a statement, the financial services company said it was inviting applications from local and international consulting firms with a proven track record in architectural and town house planning to submit their Expression of Interest for architectural design concepts and management of the proposals. “Homelink intends to develop houses, SME market stalls and bus terminuses in various locations across Zimbabwe. The facilities will be designed to offer a conducive, comfortable and modern environment,” it said. “Local and international consulting firms with a proven track record in architectural/ town planning/ housing infrastructure projects and development consultancy are invited to submit Expression of Interest (E.O.I) proposals for architectural design concepts and management of the proposals.” Homelink said the prospective bidders were required to comply with several mandatory requirements which include having at least seven years relevant experience in architectural design, town planning, project management or equipment. “Be a registered company in terms of the companies Act in the country of domicile. Have valid Zimbabwe Revenue Authority tax clearance certificate. “Provide at least three similar projects undertaken in recent times.” Last year, RBZ Deputy Governor Dr Kupukile Mlambo commissioned 68 of 329 low-cost houses that were built by Homelink Finance in Brockdale, Bindura, for low-income earners. It is hoped that such housing projects will reduce the national housing backlog, which presently stands at over one million units. The provision of affordable housing to Zimbabweans is in line with the Sustainable Development Goal 11, which seeks to ensure access to adequate, safe and affordable housing for all by 2030. — @queentauruszw