The Chronicle Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE netball coach, Lloyd Makunde, has been placed in a difficult corner in preparing for their maiden appearance at the Netball World Cup in England. This follows sharp differences between the Zimbabwe Netball Association (Zina) and the Rainbow Amateur Netball League (RANL). Makunde could lose more than half of the players, who helped the team qualify including captain Perpetua Siyachitema, after the decision by Zina to bar players from the RANL to participate in any national team activities. Zina recently circulated a letter warning that players from RANL were not eligible to participate in any national team duties. The in-fighting comes just four months before the World Cup, which runs from July 12 to 21, in Liverpool, England. But Makunde, who is expected to summon players for camp in the coming weeks, yesterday said he has not yet received any communication over the issue. “I haven’t had any communication so far. So, that one is still at executive level,’’ he said. “I am yet to know where we stand at the moment. I will have to answer that question when we get into camp, when I know where we are standing.’’ Makunde said they should be getting into camp soon to begin their preparations. Interestingly, when Zimbabwe were vying for the World Cup qualification, they drew part of their team from players in the RANL, including skipper Siyachitema, who plays for Glow Petroleum. They also represented the country in other tournaments such as the Pent Series and the Diamond Challenge. “The Zimbabwe Netball Association once again writes to advise and appeal to you that the Rainbow Amateur League is unsanctioned and unregistered by the Zina, Sports and Recreation Commission and the Ministry of Sports, Art and Culture,’’ Zina secretary-general, Barbra Rice, wrote in a letter recently. “Zina, therefore, requests you not to participate in any activities initiated by this league. “Players from this league are not eligible to participate in any national team duties.” Zina president, Leticia Chipandu, insists it’s not about RANL teams, in particular, but amateur leagues. “We are talking of players that are playing in amateur leagues because there are so many,’’ she said. “The problem is that everyone wants to get into the national team because we are going to Liverpool.’’