The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
POLICE are failing to arrest otsikamutanda who dupe villagers of their property and livestock during cleansing ceremonies as they are protected by the communities and civic leaders, Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage Deputy Minister, Cde Mike Madiro has said. Tsikamutanda, as they are commonly called, are witch hunters who claim to sniff out witches in rural communities in exchange for beasts. Cde Madiro said the activities of most tsikamutandas have an element of criminality. Responding to a question in Parliament on Wednesday on the challenges faced by police in arresting tsikamutandas, Cde Madiro said investigations carried out by the police reveal that the activities by tsikamutandas are conducted at the invitation of some traditional leaders such as chiefs and headmen for the purposes of carrying out cleansing ceremonies in their areas of jurisdiction. “In the process of carrying out these cleansing ceremonies, the tsikamutandas then take advantage to dupe people who unfortunately, willingly give the tsikamutandas tokens of appreciation for their cleansing ceremonies. Madam Speaker, the activities of these tsikamutandas indeed, have an element of criminality. “However, when the police try to intercede, the communities, led by the civic leaders, become hostile to investigations, thus failing to assist the police in locating the tsikamutandas,” he said. Cde Madiro told Parliament that the cleansing activities are done clandestinely to the extent that the existence of the tsikamutandas in a particular area is kept a closely guarded secret. “However, the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) has of late intensified awareness campaigns in this regard to conscientise the people on the need to promptly report to the police the presence of the tsikamutandas in their areas,” he said. Turning to the alleged abuses of children in Silobela by tsikamutandas raised by Zanu-PF legislator Cde Mthokozisi Manoki Mpofu, Cde Madiro said there was no reported case in the district. “Madam Speaker, on the issue of the alleged abuse of children in Silobela by the tsikamutandas, no case has been reported to any police station in the district. However, I would like to appeal to the Hon Member that, if he is aware of any such cases, there is urgent need for him to report the matter(s) to the police who will diligently deal with the reported cases,” he said. Cde Madiro assured the legislators that police will continue to raise awareness among communities and arrest all perpetrators of such crimes. Government is on record saying it does not condone witch-hunting practices that have become rampant in some parts of the country, and it has not licensed anyone to conduct such practices. Tsikamutandas have been accused by villagers in some areas of fabrication, deceit, sowing seeds of hatred and causing calamities to befall innocent people. Some chiefs and Government officials have said their actions are illegal. —@AuxiliaK