The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE Video Assistant Referee (VAR) will be used at this year’s Total African Cup of Nations finals in Egypt. The biannual tournament will be held from June 19 to July 21 and will also for the first time be made of an expanded number of teams from 16 to 24.
VAR was first used on the continent in the 2018 Caf Champions League between Egyptian giants Al Ahly and Esperance of Tunisia as well as the Total Caf Confederation Cup. The Warriors are in line for their fourth appearance at the finals as they lead Group G by two points, having accumulated eight points from five matches they have played to date and now need to avoid defeat at home against the Republic of Congo at the National Sports Stadium next month. In fact, Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambwa’s charges can still go through even with a defeat if Liberia, who anchor the group with four points, beat the DR Congo in Kinshasa. Chidzambwa is expected to announce his squad sometime this week. Meanwhile, 1xBet bookmaker has officially been unveiled as one of the sponsors for Caf tournaments that include the Total Caf Champions League, Total Caf Confederation Cup, Total Caf Super Cup) and Caf’s flagship tournament the Total African Cup of Nations. 1xBet bookmaker will activate its sponsorship on Caf’s official digital platforms as well as official stadiums of the competitions. According to Cafonline.com, the 1xBet brand will be integrated on the Caf website, social media, LED panels, 3D carpets, and can also be seen in the interview areas and on the reserve benches. “Caf is engaged in the support and development of international football on the African continent and we are very excited and proud that our cooperation with Caf has started. Supporting key sporting events is a key strategy for us to engage football fans across the African continent and people from all over the world,“ the 1xBet press office commented. “1XBet, a fast-growing company, has changed the image of online betting, just as Caf has also started this change in African football. Thus, for the Confederation, a partnership with one of the key players in online sports betting is obvious. This simple and user-friendly platform will help raise the profile of African teams, especially to clubs outside the continent,” Caf president Ahmad Ahmad told the confederation’s website.