The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter
MANUFACTURING industries should maximise production during off-peak hours to assist authorities in conserving limited power resources and enhancing efficient use of electricity, the Zimbabwe Energy Regulatory Authority (Zera) has said. Speaking at an energy management and appliance efficiency regulations workshop in Bulawayo on Tuesday, Zera senior officer, Engineer Tanda Chisi said Zimbabwe was scaling up measures towards energy efficiency and reducing wasteful energy usage. An incentive scheme is being worked on to benefit those factories that could adopt the proposed model. “Energy efficiency is vital in these present times and it is a global trend, which Zimbabwe should embrace, not only to save money but also to increase our energy security and reduce pollution,” he said. “Our industry competes heavily with the domestic sector in using up energy. To help reduce peak power demand and save money, Zera in future is looking at introducing programmes that encourage industries to use electricity during off-peak hours.” Eng Chisi said using electricity at off-peak hours not only applies to industries but also domestic use of electricity. He explained that off-peak electricity periods were times of the day when one can use their energy at a reduced cost, times when most households would not be using energy – typically at night or during weekends. “To take pressure off the country’s electricity network, what we can do as Zera in partnership with our various stakeholders is to offer incentives such as cheaper prices during off-peak times,” he said. “By choosing to use certain appliances at off-peak time rather than peak, you could save on your electricity bill.” Eng Chasi said the most wasteful sector in terms of energy was the domestic sector because it was not conscious of the importance of saving electricity. As part of Zera’s energy efficiency mantra, another Zera official, Eng Samuel Zaranyika said by 2030 every rural and urban household and institution should have electricity. Drawing from the Rural Electrification Fund, a total of 254 public institutions have recently been electrified. Eng Zaranyika said Zera had the duty to ensure that over 500 targeted public institutions have the necessary access to electricity in 2019. “Zimbabwe is currently importing about 50-300 MW from Eskom (South African public electricity utility) and other players but once our energy prospects are in place as a nation we will cut this unnecessary expense,” he said. “Likely we can become a large electricity generator in Africa resultantly exporting electricity instead of importing.” Last year a regional centre for renewable energy in Southern Africa was launched in Windhoek, Namibia to ensure the harmonisation of energy standards in the region to consider the entry of solar products and other renewable energy technologies. — @queentauruszw