The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
DEFENDING Bulawayo Metropolitan Rugby Football Board Under-21 champions, Matabeleland Warriors and last year’s losing finalists, Old Miltonians, went overboard in their preparations for today’s final, bringing expert coaches to psyche up their players. The two clash at Hartsfield Grounds this afternoon with a potentially explosive encounter on the cards for rugby enthusiasts. Warriors beat OMs, the 2017 champions, 17-12 in last year’s final. The defending champions had former national team coach Brendon Dawson and Cheetahs gaffer Gilbert Nyamutsamba giving Warriors players tips. “Our preparations have been great. We’re ready for the final and the boys are really psyched up. Even turn out at the training sessions was great and level of training has been intense. “We were also blessed by having coaches like Dawson and Nyamutsamba giving tips to the players. “On successfully defending the title, I wouldn’t say it’s in the bucket because it’s a game, but if we are to talk about a group with big hearts and fighting spirit, I’ll give it to my boys,” said Warriors coach Kudakwashe Nyakufaringwa. Warriors have been ruthless in the competition, getting to the final without losing a game. They clobbered Bulldogs 56-7 in the opening game, followed by a 28-5 victory over Highlanders, then capped the group games with a 20-15 win against OMs. Last week, Warriors posted a 45-10 semi-final win against Bulldogs. Some of the players expected to carry the day for Warriors are fly half captain Dino Mhlanga, scrumhalf Ethan Wilson, the wing pair of Emilio Wilson and TawandaTakawira and Hilton Gwekwerere. Old Miltonians coach Takunda “Killer” Katsukunya is bullish ahead of the clash. “I think we’ll win tomorrow because we managed to come up with a new game plan. We had over 30 boys turning out for training, which shows the hunger that the boys have to compete and wrestle the title away from Warriors,” said Katsukunya. Former Sables player Rueben Kumpasa, OMs ex-coaches Paradzai Matsika and Theo Weale helped OMs through their paces. OMs hopes are pinned on Gana Mathawula, Innocent Ncube, Praymore Sadomba, Barney Matambo, Shepherd Mtheliso, Lyden Gakava and Keith Chirimambowa.
— @ZililoR