The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter A LOCAL anti-corruption watchdog has said rampant corruption among doctors, nurses and other health specialists has led to deaths and is worsening the challenges affecting health service delivery in the country. In a report published recently entitled ‘Conflict of interest and other forms of corruption affecting health service delivery in Zimbabwe’, the Anti-Corruption Trust Southern Africa said a significant number of health practitioners, especially doctors, pharmacists and nurses run their own pharmacies, clinics, hospitals and surgeries while at the same time being full time employees of the Government, thereby creating conflict of interest. The report said there has always been concern that these medical practitioners spend more time at their private businesses, even during the time that they are supposed to be physically present at government hospitals. “As a result of conflict of interest, there are several incidents in which they either refer patients to seek medical attention at their private businesses or treat private patients using government facilities,” reads the report. “There are several incidents in which medical practitioners spend more time at their private businesses when they are supposed to be attending patients at government hospitals.” It said some drug shortages were caused by selfish doctors who steal from public health institutions. The report recommended that policy makers should restore order within the health sector. “The epidemic nature of corruption in the health sector, particularly in several government clinics and hospitals has been exacerbated by compromised supervisors who also run their own private clinics, hospitals, surgeries and pharmacies, offering similar services that they are supposed to be offering as government employees,” it said. “The status quo has resulted in the neglect of patients visiting government health institutions for there is less return for them as compared to what they realise from their private business establishments.” The report made reference to an incident which was reported by our sister paper The Herald where top management officials from Masvingo Provincial Hospital were fired for diverting critical drugs to private pharmacies for resale in foreign currency. According to the report, donated surgical equipment for male circumcision donated by organisations such as Population Services International reportedly found their way out of the public hospitals to private institutions in some instances. “The problem is not only rampant at government hospitals but also takes place in the private sector. For instance, four registered nurses from the Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council (ZNFPC) were arrested on allegations of stealing drugs worth over $91 000 from their employer which they in turn diverted to their private clinic in Harare,” read the report. “In some instances, officials create acute drug shortage of medicines as a strategy to push desperate patients to private pharmacies.” The report said policy makers should consider paying health practitioners handsome salaries and make decisions to address the issues raised. — @thamamoe