The Chronicle Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief GOVERNMENT has moved in to avert a looming water disaster in Gweru amid indications that the main potable water supplier Gwenhoro Dam is soon to be decommissioned as it is now left with less than 17 percent of water. Gweru Mayor Councillor Josiah Makombe said the Government had started mobilising resources and experts to expeditiously look into the problem and come up with a lasting solution to the water issue. At the same time, the Mayor said, council with US$300 000 funding from the Infrastructure Development Bank of Zimbabwe (IDBZ), has started identifying possible sites for the drilling of 20 commercial boreholes to ease water shortages. “Gweru will not run dry. That is the positive message to our residents and industry. This is because Government has already started mobilising resources and experts to make sure we get water. We also got one pump from Unki Mine although it’s a bit small. “As for boreholes, we have contractors who will be drilling the boreholes. The water will be put into our reservoirs and water tanks where it will be treated before it is channelled into the existing water pipes,” said Clr Makombe. “The funding is coming from IDBZ and I am sure we will get somewhere. Government is also coming in to assist.” Clr Makombe urged residents to play their role by conserving water. “We urge our people to be patient and bear with us as we try to solve this crisis. “We urge them to use the little water we have sparingly and also help to report any burst pipes within their areas of residence,” he said. The dire situation has been worsened by the local authority’s failure to secure over ZWL$5 million to purchase new water  pumps that could be installed at Amapongobge Dam which is an alternative water source. Only last year water woes caused the typhoid outbreak which left eight residents dead with over 2 000 requiring medical attention. The city pumping capacity has dropped to 20 mega litres a day against the city’s demand of 60 mega litres which has resulted in areas such as Mkoba 14 and Ascot suburbs going for weeks without water. The Government has also availed $400 000 to the local authority to address the water challenges. Unki Mine has also leased a water pump to the local authority which will be installed at Amapongobge Dam. Gweru has been bedevilled by water woes since the beginning of the year. In May, the local authority announced that the remaining water at Gwenhoro Dam could only sustain the city for only two months.