The Chronicle Bongiwe Nkomazana “SEXUAL harassment in the workplace is defined as the unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favours and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when: – Submission is either an explicit or an underlying condition affecting employment decisions; – The behaviour is pervasive enough as to create an intimidating, hostile or awful environment or; – The behaviour persists despite objection by the person to whom the conduct is directed”. It is no secret that there are a lot of unscrupulous behaviours that take place at our places of work. It might be done behind closed doors but we all know it is happening. Rumours are unfair but in some cases they could be a tell-tale sign of what could turn out to be true with a little investigation. It is all fun and games if these unscrupulous acts are consensual but it gets really abusive when one party is being forced to succumb to things that they don’t want to be a part of. Organisations usually do a good job of drawing up and putting in place policies that aim to curb sexual harassment. However, until and unless sexual harassment is reported, these are not enough to stop sexual harassment from occurring. The unfortunate part is that the harassed party is usually a woman. Women are more likely to be victims of sexual harassment and this is due to a number of reasons really. The first reason that comes to my head is that more men are in positions of power at work than women and that immediately makes them more unsafe. Other reasons could include the fact that women often find themselves in vulnerable and insecure positions, some lack self-confidence and most of us have, sadly, been socialised to suffer in silence. However, it is time for us women to stop smiling at men that make us uncomfortable. Before we proceed, I know this will be an unpopular opinion among the male readers but the reason why men harass women sexually at work is because of the way they perceive their gender (male) against females. Believe it or not, it has a lot to do with men wanting to exert their superiority over women. Some experts say male hostility towards women in the workplace is closely connected to male attitudes about the proper role of a man in society and putting a woman back in her “place”. It sounds crazy but this could explain a lot of the despicable acts that are committed against women at work and give us a starting point to a solution. I am woke and I know my rights so if any man at my workplace were to even look at me suggestively, I would let them know why even their dog does not deserve them. Is this overboard? Nothing is overboard. If someone does or says anything that makes the working environment hostile for you then there is need to address it. Well, a lot of us are not even aware of what falls under sexual harassment and what does not. As a result we continue to tolerate the most frustrating and depressing situations at work. We think that it is ok for a man to approach a woman he works with and declare ABC persistently despite the woman turning him down because it shows determination and what not, right? Wrong. Hands up if a comment has been made to you at work by a manager, co-worker or even a non-employee like a client, contractor that left you uncomfortable. Research shows that 60 percent of women say that they have experienced unwanted sexual attention, sexual coercion, sexually crude conduct or sexist comments in the workplace. If your hand was up you, I and numerous other women are a part of that percentage. Out of that 60 percent, how many do you think actually report these incidents? I think not enough because we continue to see and hear of the most disrespectful things happening to women in the office space. We see men gain reputations for chasing after new female recruits or male leaders who are notorious for being womanisers with their subordinates being the victims who continue with their escapades with zero consequences because no one is reporting them to whatever authority. Here are some examples of sexual harassment in the workplace that could help us put sexual harassment into simple black and white. It is a long list, as it should be. Sharing sexually inappropriate images or videos, such as pornography or obscene gifts with co-workers, sending suggestive letters, notes or e-mails goes without saying. Telling lewd jokes or sharing sexual tales is a tricky one because we all love a good laugh, hence, every single one of us should be mindful of what we think is funny or amusing. Other common examples of sexual harassment include making inappropriate sexual gestures and staring in a sexually suggestive or offensive manner. Now these ones are hard to report because it is difficult to describe and prove that a gesture or a look took place in the first place but it has to be done. Also, making sexual comments about appearance, clothing, or body parts, whistling included, is sexual harassment. Please, reserve your thoughts about women’s buttocks to yourself. Unless she is at a beauty pageant, the last thing a woman wants is the verification that her body is being scrutinised. Inappropriate touching, including pinching, patting, rubbing, or purposefully brushing up against another person can be extremely uncomfortable and personal boundaries are a real thing people. Asking sexual questions like someone’s sexual history or their sexual orientation is definitely sexual harassment. Unless you are my doctor, that is none of your business, Sir. If you are an intern and you feel as though someone at work, whoever they may be, is being inappropriate with you in a sexual manner, report them. If you are looking forward to a promotion and are made to believe that the only way to get it is to lose your morals, report it. If you are a woman trying to make a decent living at work and there is this one man that will not give you peace, report him. That is what the human resource departments and your parents are there for. If all else fails, take it to the law. By its definition, an act of sexual harassment constitutes a violation of the constitutionally protected right to fair and safe practices and labour standards and also violates the right to full and equal dignity. -You are encouraged to share and discuss your views, opinions, experiences, and opinions on this issue. Twitter: @bongi_nkomazana