The Chronicle Stanford Chiwanga THE Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce, Cde Raj Modi, was on Sunday given a standing ovation when he attended a church service at Abundant Life Revival Mission International Church where Ms Cherish Muchegwa fellowships. Not only was the Zanu-PF Bulawayo South legislator applauded as he walked to his seat, but many in the church kneeled down to thank him for coming to Ms Muchegwa’s rescue. Ms Muchegwa suffered life threatening injuries after she was mauled by her landlady’s five dogs in March, resulting in Cde Modi stepping in and spearheading a fundraising campaign that culminated with her being flown to India for reconstructive surgery. Local doctors had feared that Ms Muchegwa could succumb to her stomach-turning injuries, but doctors at Kiran Hospital in India managed to not only save her life but her arms and legs too. Delivering his sermon, the leader of the church, Prophet Itai Ukama, described Cde Modi as a philanthropist who is in politics to serve the people not for self-gain. “Most politicians are in politics for self-gain but Modi is a rare politician. He is a businessman and a philanthropist who does not want for anything. He is in politics because he wants to help the people of Zimbabwe. I can safely say that the money he spends helping others is far more than the money he makes in government. This man is more Christian than most of us. “I pray that God blesses Zimbabwe with more politicians like you. If we had five politicians like you in Bulawayo, the city would be a success story. I pray that you retain your seat in 2023. In fact were it up to me no one would stand against you. Bulawayo is blessed to have you in government,” said Prophet Ukama. Prophet Ukama advised 2018 Bulawayo South national assembly losing independent candidate Josphat “Mzaca” Ngulube, who was also in the same church service with Cde Modi, to put aside his political leanings and work with the renowned philanthropist for the good of the city. He said: “I didn’t want to say this but I have to say it, Mzaca came to my office before elections last year and asked me to pray for him to win and I was honest with him that he will lose. And lose he did to the Honourable (Modi). Today they are in church together, I want to say that religion knows no politics, it is a unifier so I urge them to bury their differences and work together for the good of the people.” Addressing the church, Cde Modi said the moment he saw the pictures depicting Ms Muchegwa’s injuries he decided to help her get medical care. “When I saw the pictures I was in shock and I didn’t believe what I was looking at. It looked like she had been mauled by a lion not dogs. I didn’t know that dogs could do that. After visiting her in hospital and talking to her, helping her came naturally. I want to tell you one thing, I came to Zimbabwe with a pair of clothes and US$50 but today I am successful because I have always told myself that I have to help people in need. “Cherish’s recovery is a miracle and it can only be God. I want you to know that I believe in God and what my life has taught me is that God rewards those who help others. I am what I am because I help others. Whenever I help someone God doubles or triples my riches and that can only be a miracle. I cannot truly explain how he does it but God helps. “Today Cherish can walk and that is all that matters. I always put myself out there to help where I can and when I can. I am happy that Cherish has people who love her, the church has been supportive throughout her ordeal and that is wonderful. She is blessed to have such people in her life,” said Cde Modi. Meanwhile, during the church service congregants raised US$920, R3 560, 70 pula and $190 to clear Ms Muchegwa’s local medical bills that amounted to $4 270 and US$773.