The Chronicle Mutsiba Brian Editor: The 11th of July 2019 will go down memory lane as a momentous day in the development of sport in Bulawayo. On the mark of its 45th anniversary Njube High School had the express privilege to have the Veterans’ Basketball Youth Development Association (VBYDA) grace the school in a ceremony to present basketball equipment to the community school. The welcome donation is the brain child of the veterans’ association in partnership with Sipho Pugeni, a UK-based basketball veteran and responsible for brokering the donation package from the UK-based St Thomas Moore High School. Speaking at the event, the secretary general for the Veterans’ Basketball Youth Development Association and Technical President for the Bulawayo Basketball Association, Mr Sinda Mono accompanied by Mrs Mono said the thrust of the programme was to partner as many local community schools with schools in the UK with the prime focus to develop the sport  and moreso cultivate further grass roots basketball through interaction and dialogue with the primary and secondary school sector and other interested stake holders. In so doing, the basketball veterans and their partners abroad endeavour to foster growth and nurture development of the sporting discipline. On presenting the donation that included three sets of basketball kits and three balls, the secretary general pointed out that the initiative would further extend to other schools within the province. A further highlight was made on the veterans’ associations commitment to further develop the sport through plans to refurbish the schools basketball courts. In addition to this the school will receive funding for their basketball game fixtures. Mr Mono further applauded the President of the Veterans’ Basketball Youth Development Association, Mr Durrel Adams and colleagues for their sterling zeal and hard work in promoting the game. It is in the light of this kind gesture that that the basketball team, the sports department and the entire staff at Njube High openly applaud the veterans’ association, Sipho and St Thomas Moore High School. We express our heartf felt gratitude with a warm thank you.  