The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter PRESIDENT Mnangagwa has congratulated newly-elected leader of the ruling Conservative Party of the United Kingdom and Prime Minister-designate Mr Boris Johnson and pledged to work towards strengthening ties between the two nations. Mr Johnson was yesterday elected the Conservative Party leader and will become the UK Prime Minister today following the resignation of Ms Theresa May who will formally step down after failing to deliver on Brexit. The new premier landed the post after beating his rival, Foreign Secretary Mr Jeremy Hunt by 66 percent of the votes after garnering 92 153 votes with the latter getting 46 656 votes in a ballot of party members. Today Mrs May will take part in her last Prime Minister’s Questions and then make a short farewell speech outside No. 10 Downing Street before travelling to see the Queen to tender her resignation. Mr Johnson will then arrive for an audience with the Queen at Buckingham Palace where he will be invited to form a Government. President Mnangagwa became one of the global leaders to wish the former London Mayor well in his new position. “Congratulations @BorisJohnson on your election as leader of the Conservative Party and on becoming Prime Minister of the UK. I wish you good luck for the journey ahead, and look forward to building ever closer ties between our two nations under your leadership,” tweeted President Mnangagwa. The President is championing a re-engagement drive to improve relations with nations that Zimbabwe had frosty relations with, Britain included. Government is also negotiating for its readmission into the Commonwealth. In his victory speech, Mr Johnson promised he would “deliver Brexit, unite the country and defeat Jeremy Corbyn”. Speaking at the Queen Elizabeth II centre in London, he said: “We are going to energise the country. We are going to get Brexit done on 31 October and take advantage of all the opportunities it will bring with a new spirit of can do. “We are once again going to believe in ourselves, and like some slumbering giant we are going to rise and ping off the guy ropes of self doubt and negativity.” Mr Johnson also posted on the micro blogging site Twitter, expressing his gratitude for the new responsibilities bestowed on him. “Thank you all for the incredible honour you have done me. The time for campaigning is over and the time for work begins to unite our country and party, deliver Brexit and defeat Corbyn. I will work flat out to repay your confidence,” he tweeted. Mr Johnson is viewed as a hardliner on issues to do with Brexit and upon his election he promised to deliver on it before the end of October even without a deal from the European Union. He becomes the third Prime Minister of Britain following the 2016 Brexit referendum which also saw mr David Cameron resigning from office. — @nqotshili