The Chronicle  TWO solar power projects in Gwanda district of Matabeleland South poignantly illustrate the urgency for Zimbabwe to adopt alternative sources of power in the midst of crippling power shortages exacerbated by ageing thermal power plants and low water levels at Kariba dam. With Hwange power station experiencing intermittent breakdowns and Kariba hydro power station unable to produce enough electricity to meet the nation’s needs, solar power has emerged as a viable alternative which could be the panacea to the country’s energy problems. Besides being clean and relatively cheap energy, solar power can be installed in rural areas as exemplified by the Mashaba solar powered mini-grid in Gwanda South. Funded through a four year 7. 1 million euro project for Zimbabwe and Malawi under the European Development Fund (EDF), the grid is benefiting more than 10 000 people, mainly small scale farmers. The project, which was funded to the tune of 2.7 million euro, seeks to help the local community to survive droughts, enhance food security and improve livelihoods through connecting them to the Mashaba solar-powered mini-grid. The small and decentralised solar power system operates independently of the main grid managed by the country’s power utility, Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority. It offers greater stability and independence than traditional off-site power stations giving the local Gwanda community control over their energy needs. At present, the mini-grid provided power to a radius of up to 25km helping to boost economic activities in three irrigation schemes – Mankonkoni, Sebasa, Rustlers’ Gorge – as well as Mashaba and Msendami business centres, and Mashaba Clinic and Mashaba Primary School. The installation of the solar system is helping the local community to make significant savings on energy costs while at the same time promoting a cleaner environment. The micro-grid has 400 solar panels and storage batteries. In stark contrast, another solar project funded by the Zimbabwe Power Company in Gwanda town is yet to take off. Energy and Power Development Minister Fortune Chasi last week demanded completion of the multi-million dollar 100 megawatts Gwanda solar project saying he wanted to see electricity being generated from the power station after Government paid US$5,1 million in tax payers’ money for its construction. The Energy Minister also said an explanation from Zesa Holdings, the holding arm of the group’s power generation unit, on why there have been crippling delays to the implementation of the Gwanda solar project was necessary. ZPC paid a staggering US$5,1 million to Intratrek Zimbabwe, a company fronted by flamboyant businessman Wicknell Chivayo, to have pre-commencement works done, ahead of actual phased construction, with little of initial works done thus far, which includes land clearance and site fencing and topography studies. Delays in the implementation of the Gwanda solar project have already resulted in a contractual dispute between Zesa and Intratrek which saw the power utility attempting to terminate the agreement. While this is going on, the opportunity cost to the country is immense as rolling power cuts continue unabated at huge cost to industry. If the Gwanda solar project had taken off on schedule, it is our belief that it could be contributing to the national grid, alleviating the current power challenges. As a country, we need to prioritise solar energy and invest heavily in it and lessen the overreliance on hydro and thermal power. We are glad that Government is crafting incentives to promote investment into solar energy. We reported yesterday that Minister Chasi believes the current challenges at both Kariba and Hwange require incentivising solar energy investments so that the country takes advantage of the over 300 days of sunshine per year. “We don’t make solar panels or any other solar equipment, so they have to be bought at those (obtaining) prices,” he said. “But what we are actively looking at now is how we can incentivise investments into solar. “So, we are currently looking at that. Once we are clear on the incentive, we will then be able to communicate to the public.” His Finance and Economic Development counterpart Professor Mthuli Ncube also conceded last week that it was time Zimbabwe embraced renewable energy, especially solar. “We have been too slow in embracing renewable energy sources, we have so much sunshine, why can’t we have solar farms,” he said. We agree totally with the two Ministers. Zimbabwe has an average radiation level of 2100kw/m2 per year, compared to 1400kw/m2 in most parts of Europe, but the country is not exploiting the sun for the benefit of industry and domestic consumers. If fully exploited, solar could feed up to 10 000 gigawatt hours of electricity per annum into the grid. This is immense and could make a huge difference to the country’s energy needs. In this regard, we urge private players, parastatals, quasi government entities and ordinary Zimbabweans to embrace solar power and invest in setting up mini grids to assure themselves of uninterrupted power supply and business continuity.