The Chronicle Tendai Rupapa in Niamey, Niger The newly-elected vice-president of the Organisation of African First Ladies for Development (OAFLAD) Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa has urged her fellow African First Ladies to continue working hard for the development of their countries and the continent. In an interview at the sidelines of the closing ceremony of the OAFLAD 23rd General Assembly here yesterday, the First Lady said she also learnt a lot from the discussions she had with fellow First Ladies. She pledged to continue with her developmental programmes and initiatives in Zimbabwe for the benefit of every citizen. “This conference has been an eye opener to all of us,” she said. “I, therefore, encourage other First Ladies to continue working hard for betterment their countries and the continent. “I have learnt a lot through OAFLAD and will use that knowledge for the benefit of the nation and the continent. “From the discussions we had, I noticed that some of the work I have done so far through my charity organisation Angel of Hope Foundation, most of the First Ladies are yet to start such while some are still in the process of implementing them.” She said OAFLAD gave them a platform to share ideas and encourage each other as mothers of nations. Amai Mnangagwa thanked Angel of Hope’s partners and sponsors who have been assisting her in her philanthropic projects. “Whenever we get sponsorships we try as much as possible to be accountable so as to retain trust. “I have come a long way and the plans I came up with, most of them I have implemented. “I have been dealing mostly with health issues that include cancer and HIV and Aids and other related ailments. “I have also been going around the country assisting the less privileged,” Amai Mnangagwa said. Speaking during the closing ceremony, Niger First Lady Aissata Issoufou Mahamadou thanked her fellow First Ladies for the successful conference which was running concurrently with the African Union Extraordinary Summit. She called for support from all sectors. “We hope to continue getting more support from all stakeholders for the benefit of vulnerable populations in the continent and this is in line with our theme for this conference,” she said. “We need to give hope to the vulnerable populations, giving them new breath and we can only achieve this through unity. “Our people in our respective countries have trust in us so let us not disappoint them and continue working hard.” OAFLAD outgoing president, the First Lady of Burkina Faso Adjoabi Sika Kabore said the African First Ladies were motivated by commitment, adding they were determined to go forward. She congratulated the newly elected OAFLAD leaders. “We promise to take the organisation to greater heights for the benefit of the population. “Our theme shows that not only are we calling for collaboration with partners but also collaboration within ourselves for the good of our continent,” she said. Several OAFLAD partners that included World Health Organisation, UNAIDS, International Planned Parenthood Federation, World Bank, ABBOT among others pledged their support towards the organisation’s projects. Congo Brazzaville’s First Lady Antonette Sassou N’gesso was voted the new OAFLAD president. Niger President Mahamadou Issoufou yesterday commended African First Ladies for their commitment in furthering continental developmental issues through OAFLAD. He said First Ladies play an important role in the transformation of their countries and the continent at large. Speaking during the closing ceremony of the 23rd session of the OAFLAD General Assembly where he made a prompt appearance, President Issoufou said the First Ladies, through their organisation, were firmly united by their desire to end poverty and entrench processes for sustainable progress for the attainment of African Union’s Agenda 2063. He urged the First Ladies to continue working hard and supporting their husbands’ initiatives in their respective countries for the benefit of Africa. The organisation was formed in 2002 when First Ladies came together to form the Organisation of African First Ladies against HIV and Aids (OAFLA), with the objective of being a united voice for Africa’s most susceptible citizens; women and children living with and affected by HIV and Aids.