The Chronicle Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent MDC Alliance president Mr Nelson Chamisa has threatened yet again to unleash protests saying he will only accept a new political arrangement that he leads. Addressing his supporters at a rally at Mucheke Stadium here yesterday, Mr Chamisa said he would mobilise his party’s members to engage in nationwide protests. “First, we need guarantee to freedom, secondly we want political and diplomatic pressure. I am sure when we call for support everyone will join our protests, as we want to claim back our victory stolen in 2018 harmonised election. Thirdly we want to have a dialogue led by a neutral arbitrator between me and my brother, (President) Mnangagwa,” said Mr Chamisa. “It is Zanu-PF and MDC Alliance that have a conflict not the other parties. We will form a new dispensation that we will lead as MDC Alliance as we do not want another Government of National Unity. We were tricked into entering into such an arrangement and this time we are saying we want to be the leaders of any transitional arrangement, as the legitimate government.” He claimed his party has the “answers to all” problems affecting the country. Turning to Mr Job Sikhala, the party‘s deputy chairman who is in remand prison in Masvingo after his arrest for threatening to overthrow the Government, Mr Chamisa alleged that he was denied access to visit the politician. “When I arrived at Masvingo Remand prison after being told that Job was at Mutimurefu Prisons, I spent more than 30 minutes waiting to see him but the prison guard said, president we need to ask the bosses first before we allow you,” he said. “I was patient and waited while hearing them phoning their bosses and I would like to believe they even talked to ED but unfortunately I was denied. After waiting for eternity I could not wait any more. Later I saw riot police coming and when I asked, the district dispol of police said we have come to check if there is no mayhem here.” Mr Chamisa admitted that MDC Alliance-run local authorities were corrupt. “There is serious corruption in our local authorities and MDC Alliance has entrusted a team led by Mr Elias Mudzuri to carry out an audit in each council on how things are done,” he said. On the economy, Mr Chamisa said: “We also want the structure of leadership at the top, in government, to change. “Teachers, soldiers, police and prison guards always phone me asking me to return the United States dollar. I have told them I am not in power right now although I am the winner of the elections. Once I am in power, which I am smelling, I would provide everything that you need.” —  @walterbmswazie2