The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter POLICE recorded an increase of 26 percent in road accidents and 20 percent in crimes of national concern in 2018. According to the Auditor General Mrs Mildred Chiri in her 2018 report, the failure by police to reduce crime and road traffic accidents was sapping public confidence in the security sector. Mrs Chiri said the department should come up with strategies that enhance improved service delivery. “Loss of confidence in the service of the police force often results in the citizens taking the law into their own hands. Lives may continue to be lost if accidents are not curbed and the reputation of police force may be compromised,” she said. She encouraged police to conduct awareness campaigns to conscientise the public on emerging modus operandi of criminals. Mrs Chiri said for 2018, the service’s objective number one under the key result area on Peace and Security was to reduce the general crime by four percent by December 31, 2018 compared to a similar period in 2017. “Crimes of national concern shot up to 243 225 from 201 928 in 2017 which constitutes a 20 percent increase. “Traffic accidents went up by 26 percent from 42 430 in 2017 to 53 591 in 2018,” said Mrs Chiri. “Objective number 5 of the same Key Result Area was also to reduce traffic accidents by 3 percent by December 31, 2018 compared to a similar period in 2017. “However, I noted that there were increases in the number of cases and accidents reported as indicated in the Commissioner General of the Zimbabwe Republic Police’s Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2018,” she said. Mrs Chiri said the department should come up with strategies that enhance improved service delivery. “Loss of confidence in the service of the Police Force often results in the citizens taking the law into their own hands. Lives may continue to be lost if accidents are not curbed and the reputation of police force may be compromised” said Mrs Chiri. She encouraged police to conduct awareness campaigns to conscientise the public on prevalent crimes. “They should also carry out traffic enforcement duties to manage flow of vehicular traffic, detect and arrest traffic offenders and reducing road traffic accidents. “Police must also strengthen all community policing initiatives such as Neighbourhood Watch Committees, Hotlines, use of social media platforms,” she said. Mrs Chiri said police can also work on heightening Wanted Persons Checks to account for all fugitives of justice and sustaining intelligence-led policing in the spirit of pro-activity in policing. — @thamamoe