The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter BULAWAYO Mayor Councillor Solomon Mguni yesterday said the inconvenience caused by the citywide water cuts is necessary as council is replacing old pipes that were laid more than 70 years ago. Clr Mguni said the pipes had long outlived their lifespan and there were fears the water reticulation system could collapse any time, hence the decision to replace the old pipes. The municipality is implementing major rehabilitation works under the Bulawayo Water and Sewerage Services Improvement Project (BWSSIP) funded by the African Development Bank which has seen some suburbs going for more than a week without water. Clr Mguni said the rehabilitation exercise was proof that the council was addressing some of the city’s shortcomings compromising service delivery. “The rehabilitation of water treatment and pumping infrastructure under the African Development bank’s BSWIP grant continues. There are times when we must take the pain to improve efficiency of service delivery to residents and other water consumers. We apologise to some of our residents and stakeholders who have gone for seven days without water. This is the first time to undertake such a massive project since the 1940s,” posted Clr Mguni, on his Facebook page. He said council was on a mission to be a leading smart transformative city by 2024. The water crisis has hit most suburbs with some going for 10 days without water. Residents who spoke to the news crew said life had become unbearable. They said  water bowsers that the council had promised to avail to some areas were not  enough. “The council bowser was brought at night yesterday (Tuesday) and there was chaos as residents jostled to get the precious liquid,” said Mrs Nomhle Nkomo of Pumula suburb. Bouncers are allegedly controlling boreholes and even selling the water. Meanwhile, Bulawayo Town Clerk Mr Christopher Dube yesterday said the major rehabilitation works were still ongoing. “Works at Criterion Water Works are still ongoing, with some of the major works now having been completed. Critical sections such as the installation of key backwash pumps and electrical control units, which are vital components in the treatment process, are yet to be completed. It is due to these outstanding works that the treatment plant continues to operate below optimum, affecting water production capacity,” said Mr Dube. He said yesterday morning council had managed to open water supplies to high lying areas such as Emganwini, Nketa, Nguboyenja and Makokoba as a temporary relief as these suburbs are part of the areas that had gone for too long without water. Mr Dube said water was steadily increasing at reservoirs which should improve the water situation. “More affected areas are scheduled to be opened tomorrow (today). To this end, water will be opened and closed until the system stabilises. Council continues to monitor its distribution reservoirs so that they recover to above 80 percent of storage capacity,” said Mr Dube. He encouraged residents to continue conserving water, report bursts and desist from vandalising infrastructure as this affects water supply. Bulawayo Progressive Residents’ Association (BPRA) said in a statement that vandalism of council infrastructure had become rife. The residents’ association called for authorities to consider shutting down schools until the situation returns to normalcy. “Some residents have resorted to destroying council water pipes searching for water. The situation has posed a health scare at public institutions such as schools and placed a considerable burden on ordinary residents as they are forced to spend long productive hours queueing for water. Bulawayo is therefore in utmost danger of a cholera and typhoid outbreak,” said BPRA. Only the Central Business District, mines, hospitals and industrial sites have been spared in the ongoing major rehabilitation works imposed water shedding exercise. — @nqotshili