The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter GOVERNMENT has condemned acts of violence exhibited by Zimbabweans in the United Kingdom following an attack on Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Dr Sibusiso Moyo and other members of his delegation by a group of opposition Movement for Democratic Change supporters in London yesterday. Dr Moyo is in London for a four-day Global Conference for media freedom and a re-engagement programme to strengthen bilateral relations and woo investment into the country. A group of Zimbabwean protesters from the MDC UK branch attacked Dr Moyo, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services, Mr Nick Mangwana and other Government officials outside Chatham House in London. The protesters kicked Dr Moyo and poured water on him before he was whisked away by security agents while some officials ran back into Chatham House. In a statement yesterday, the Ministry of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services said it was unfortunate that the spirit of violence was spilling to Zimbabweans living in other countries. “Government condemns the violent attacks against the delegation by a group of opposition protesters outside Chatham House in London. “It’s tragic that the sceptre of violence during protests, witnessed in Zimbabwe, which forces the security services to act, has reared its ugly head in foreign land, discrediting not the Government, but the hoodlums themselves and embarrassing peace -loving Zimbabweans,” said the Ministry. It said the attacks have not, however, disrupted Dr Moyo’s successful engagement in the UK in any way.  “Undeterred, his programme continued with fruitful meetings with the Secretary General of the Commonwealth and investors,” said the Ministry. It added that the programme ended last night with engagements with a progressive Zimbabwean Diaspora and other key stakeholders, whose support for Zimbabwe’s economic and political reform efforts remains steadfast. The conference was being co-hosted by the British and Canadian Governments and Dr Moyo gave an address on investment opportunities and the ease of doing business in Zimbabwe. Co-chaired by the UK foreign secretary Mr Jeremy Hunt and the Canadian Minister of Foreign Affairs Christiana Alexandra Freeland, the conference brought together Government officials, multilateral agencies, civil society organisations, academics, editors, publishers and journalists. The conference focused on the national frameworks and legislation, building trust in the media and media sustainability. Last week the Foreign Affairs Ministry said Dr Moyo’s trip was in furtherance of the Ministry’s economic diplomacy policy to secure international financial support and foreign direct investment. — @pamelashumba1