The Chronicle Cape Town — Paul Ince has urged Liverpool to make a move for Real Madrid forward, Gareth Bale, as he feels the Welshman would be a “perfect fit” for the Anfield outfit. The 30-year-old is being pushed out at Real and there is talk of a lucrative move to China being in the pipeline, while Paris Saint-Germain and Bayern Munich are also keen. However, Paul Ince is urging his former club Liverpool to make a move for Bale and believes it could be a marriage made in heaven if it was to happen. “Bale can play right, left or central. If I was looking at a team if they could afford him, it would be Liverpool,” he told BBC Radio 5 Live. “He needs to re-invent himself as a player and play football week in, week out. “He would have to take a massive wage drop. It can’t be about money for Bale. He has to go to a team who can win things. Liverpool are European champions and they want to make a massive challenge in the league again. “Who else could afford him? Man City maybe, Man United and I don’t think Tottenham would be the right club. I would like to see him at Liverpool. He still has four or five years left. I think he’d be a perfect fit.” Gareth Bale will not be leaving Real Madrid on loan during the transfer window despite falling out of favour under Zinedine Zidane, his agent said on Tuesday. The Real boss said at the weekend the La Liga giants were poised to offload the 30-year-old Wales star. But his representative, Jonathan Barnett, told Sky Sports News any deal would have to be a permanent one. “There will be no makeshift deals to get him out of the club,” said Barnett, who said previously that Zidane has shown “no respect” for Bale’s achievements at Real. “Gareth is one of the best players on the planet. I can guarantee you he will not be going on loan to any club.” Bale has been deemed surplus to requirements at Real despite helping his side to a Spanish title and four Champions League crowns since arriving from Tottenham Hotspur six years ago. His brace, including a brilliant bicycle kick, sank Liverpool in the 2018 final but he was not used as a regular starter by Zidane after the Frenchman returned to the Real bench in early March. “Gareth is a Real Madrid player and for now he’s staying as a Real Madrid player,” said Barnett. “If something comes along that suits us, then things could change and he could be gone in a day or a week. Or he could still be a Real player in three years, when his contract ends.” Real are playing Arsenal in a friendly on Tuesday at the FedExField – home of the NFL’s Washington Redskins. – AFP.