The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter ONE of the two suspects who ganged up and fatally struck a Bulawayo man with a bottle on the head before robbing him of $2 has been sentenced to seven years in jail. Siphosenkosi Ndlovu (20) and Admire Ncube, who is still at large, fatally attacked Makhosini Siziba (22) of Mzilikazi suburb while he was walking home with his friend, Timothy Ncube. The two friends were coming from a beer drink at around midnight on August 11 in 2017 when Ndlovu and Admire confronted them. Ndlovu, who was initially facing a murder charge, was convicted of culpable homicide by Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Maxwell Takuva. He will serve an effective five years after two years were suspended on condition of good behaviour. In passing sentence, Justice Takuva condemned Ndlovu’s conduct saying the degree of negligence was very high. “The degree of negligence is very high and raises the level of moral blameworthiness. In this case, the fight was needless and the courts will not treat the accused person with lenience simply because he is a youth,” he said. Justice Takuva said the courts have a duty to protect the sanctity of life through passing deterrent sentences. “Culpable homicide arising from violence is a serious offence because it results in loss of life. In this case, the accused person used a dangerous weapon which was not necessary to do so,” he said. Prosecuting, Mrs Sifiso Sibanda said on August 11 in 2017, Ndlovu was in the company of Admire when they confronted Siziba and Timothy who were coming from Jika-Jika Night Club in Mzilikazi. “The accused persons confronted the deceased and his friend, Timothy Ncube and demanded money. They struck Siziba once on the head using an empty beer bottle,” said Mr Dlodlo. After the attack, the two men searched Siziba and took his wallet containing $2 and his identity particulars before they fled from the scene. Siziba sustained a deep cut on the head and Timothy sprained a leg after he was hit with a bottle. The assailants stripped Siziba of his sports shoes, jacket and shirt. “Timothy tried to fight the two robbers when they pounced on them and when Siziba tried to intervene and help his friend, one of them hit him with a bottle and he lost consciousness. They then stripped him of his clothes, searched his trousers pockets and fled with his wallet,” said Mrs Sibanda. Siziba and Timothy managed to walk to Barbourfields police base where they reported the matter before going to Mpilo Central Hospital where they were both admitted. Siziba died the following day. Investigations led to the arrest of Ndlovu while his accomplice is still on the run.—@mashnets