The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Lupane HOME Affairs and Cultural Heritage Minister Cain Mathema has commissioned two classroom blocks in Hwange and Lupane districts. The blocks at St Michael’s Mbizha Primary School in Hwange District and Masungamala Primary School in Lupane were constructed by the Lotteries and Gaming Board as part of its corporate social responsibility to foster development in poor communities in partnership with Government. Minister Mathema started at the Catholic Church run St Michael’s school on Thursday before moving to Lupane yesterday. He implored the corporate world to adopt the Lupane school which was built in 1945 and has been operating with one thatched block. In 2016 the only block was destroyed by a hailstorm prompting Government, through the Lotteries and Gaming Fund to finance construction of another block. Two other donors Baobab Strong and Ubuntu Trust have also built a block each, giving a lifeline to 134 pupils that are enrolled at the school. “The Lotteries and Gaming Board was established by Government under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage and is carrying out subventions for infrastructure at schools especially in rural communities that cannot afford construction of blocks by themselves. “It’s the cardinal aspiration of President Mnangagwa for every Zimbabwean child to gain education for the well-being of socio-economic development,” said Minister Mathema. He challenged the Lupane community to grab business opportunities available to their disposal, saying the lotteries sector is one of them. “There are few lotteries in Matabeleland North and this is an opportunity to venture in to provide employment, for leisure and for development. This is the spirit with which Government intervened in the construction of classroom blocks at Masungamala and St Michael’s among several interventions throughout the country. The lotteries and gaming licencees collectively contribute immensely towards socio-economic development throughout Zimbabwe hence the special honour,” said Minister Mathema. Matabeleland North deputy provincial education director in charge of primary schools Mrs Beatrice Manjere said Government will always be committed to providing a conducive environment for education. — @ncubeleon