The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls A 65-year-old German man has run a record 431 marathons in different countries and is targeting 500 before he retires. Christoph Randt from Heidelberg, a town in south-west of Germany, said he still feels strong after completing 42km in 3 hours 59 minutes 42 seconds at the Econet Victoria Falls Marathon on Sunday. He is one of the many elderly runners that have embraced the Victoria Falls Marathon into their list of competitive and professional events. Randt is a member of the 100 Marathon Club comprising runners from the United Kingdom and other countries, who have completed 100 or more marathons. Randt said next year he will bring along his wife. “I have taken part in 431 marathons and want to reach 500 before I retire. I still feel very strong and I need these marathons for good health. It feels good,” he said. Randt said he started participating in marathons in 1998 when he was 44 years old. He said he has run the Oceans and Comrades marathons in South Africa as well as several others in Switzerland, Tokyo, London, New York, Berlin, Chicago and Bosnia. He is one of many internationals crisscrossing the world collecting marathon medals for healthy living and history making. Another elderly runner Tenho Lauri (74) from Finland is on a similar mission. Lauri made his debut Victoria Falls Marathon last year. He said he had surpassed his target of 100 marathons and the Victoria Falls Marathon on Sunday was his 108th marathon. He had promised to slow down after reaching 100 marathons last year, but he can’t seem to stop. Lauri from the Finland capital Helsinki said he started his journey to his record at the age of 55. Before that, Lauri said he was into skiing in northern Finland. On Sunday he was accompanied by Japanese Toshinori Watanabe (73), who has taken part in 73 marathons. The two are members of the Country Club, with a similar mission to that of 100 Marathons Club. A total of 3 518 runners from 43 countries registered for the combined 42km marathon, 21km and 7km fun run. – @ncubeleon