The Chronicle Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent KWEKWE businessman and property owner, Harish Bhai Naran, has died. He was 65. Naran, whose family is among the first to own properties in Kwekwe around the 1960s, succumbed to lung cancer on Sunday at Topomas Clinic. His son, Kiran, confirmed that his father had been battling the disease for years, adding that the family was still to come to terms with his passing on. “As a family we are still to accept that indeed he has passed on. He was our pillar of strength, one who gave us hope when we ran out of ideas. “The loss is not only for the family but for the entire Midlands province particularly Kwekwe the community where he was an integral part,” said Kiran. He said his father was cremated in Kadoma on Monday as per family tradition. Condolence messages continued to pour in for the reverred businessman. Kwekwe Mayor Councillor Angeline Kasipo said the city had been left with a huge void. “My heart goes to the Naran family for the sad loss of their father. He is not going to be easy to replace, his shoes are too big to fill. We are with the family during these trying times,” she said. Family friend and Lions Club president, Mr Erick Msesengwe, described Naran as a selfless businessman who was always there to help upcoming businesspeople. “We lost a pillar of strength and our guide, one we would approach in times of need. He was an integral part of the Lions Club in Kwekwe and his absence will greatly be felt. It is never easy to replace a person like Mr Naran,” he said. Kwekwe Press Club acting secretary, Miss Prisca Manyiwa, also described Naran as one businessman who was always there for Kwekwe journalists in times of need. “He did not only support journalists but was keen to see Kwekwe developing and would play his part in the development of the town. He was also blunt and would tell you as it is in your face if you dared cross his path,” said Miss Manyiwa. Born in 1954 in a business family, Naran started selling goods in his father’s shop as early as 1964. Part of the Naran empire includes a number of properties in and around Kwekwe as well as retail outlets. He is survived by wife Sheila and son, Kiran.