The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter PAN-AFRICAN telecommunications operator, Liquid Telecom, has announced partnership with United States of America’s Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in rolling out the 2019 ‘inclusive innovation challenge’ (IIC) in Africa. Through the partnership, Liquid Telecom will be encouraging African-based start-ups, innovators and technology companies to take part in various technological challenges. Liquid Telecom group chief technology and innovation challenge, Mr Ben Roberts, said his firm was looking forward to working with MIT at the IIC. “Liquid Telecom is looking forward to working with MIT on delivering the IIC in Africa as it is aligned with our mission to support innovation, using digital technology, across the continent. As an African company, greater inclusion in both the creation and application of technology is fundamental to Liquid Telecom,” he said in a video posted on Liquid’s official Twitter account. “We are happy to help IIC reach more entrepreneurs and innovators across the continent.” Since its inception in 2016, IIC has dedicated to empowering entrepreneurs around the globe to be innovative with technology. This year’s challenge will be held in five continents including Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and America. The 2019 IIC has four categories namely, technology access, financial inclusion, skills development and opportunity matching as well as income growth and job creation. Since inception, 3 000 organisations have registered for the IIC from more than 100 nations. It has also worked with more than 100 global outreach partners, 500 judges, and drawn 3 300 event attendees. There were 100 winners in last year’s competition who were awarded a total of $3, 5 million. They developed solutions ranging from agricultural climate apps for African farmers to training courses for US healthcare workers and coding boot camps in India and the Middle East. Registration for IIC this year closed on May 9 while regional finalists are set to be announced on July 23. – @queentauruszw