The Chronicle Harare Bureau ZIMBABWEAN firms should produce goods and services that meet international standards in order to be competitive on the global market, Energy and Power Development Minister, Dr Joram Gumbo, has said. Minister Gumbo said this while addressing delegates at the ZUVA Petroleum treble ISO Certification ceremony held in the capital last Friday. ZUVA Petroleum achieved three International Standards Organisation certifications from the British Standards Institution (BSI), becoming the first company in the energy sector to attain such an achievement at one go. The petroleum company managed to attain ISO 9001: 2015, which is a Quality Management System, ISO 14001: 2015 (Environmental Management systems) and ISO 45001: 2018 (Occupational Health and safety management system). Dr Gumbo indicated that meeting universal standards was a significant element that enhances marketing of local products and services on a global scale. “My ministry is proud to see Zimbabwean companies achieving international standards. This is what we yearn for as Government (meet international standards) in order to be competitive on the global market. “Certifications do not come easy. Corporates must first satisfy and meet international best practice to obtain these. We are delighted that ZUVA not only understands these requirements but are the first company in Zimbabwe to be certified with the Occupational health ISO standard, 45001 of 2018,” said Dr Gumbo. ZUVA Petroleum becomes the first company to have Occupational Health and safety management system certification (introduced last year March) on the local scale. BSI representative at the occasion Mr Jacs van Rooy said attainment of these certification s was a confidence builder for shareholders and clients alike. “By taking this move ZUVA Petroleum is giving assurance to its shareholders, clients and employees. It is a great achievement to attain ISO 45001, which was only published last year in March and implement it in a year’s time,” said Mr Rooy. Organisations use the standard to demonstrate the ability to consistently provide products and services that meet customer and regulatory requirements. Standards Association of Zimbabwe (SAZ), last September revealed that about 40 percent of companies in Zimbabwe are not compliant with the expected standard guidelines that protect consumers from potential risks.