The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter SPORTS betting company Hollywoodbets have come on board as sponsors of the 2019 edition of the Cosafa Cup that will be held in Durban, South Africa, from May 25 to June 8. Cosafa president Philip Chiyangwa confirmed that the multinational company that offers betting via its website and other platforms had signed as a partner. “We would like to thank Hollywoodbets for the commitment they have made to the Cosafa Cup and it is yet another display of their loyalty to the people of Durban. Sponsorship is vital for any sports event and our Cosafa Cup is no different, allowing us to continue to develop top-class footballers, coaches, match officials and administrators in our region. We are looking forward to a hugely successful 2019 Cosafa Cup and in partnership with Hollywoodbets, seek to raise the level of Southern African football further with a world-class competition,” said Chiyangwa in a statement. Hollywoodbets has operations in South Africa, Mozambique, Ireland and the United Kingdom. It offers betting via its website, mobisite, call centre and USSD as well as retail outlets in South Africa. The company’s soccer brand manager Wayde Dorkin said they were excited to partner Cosafa as football formed the core of their business. The company has also been involved in growing soccer through sponsorship of various development teams and tournaments around South Africa through its ‘My Community Programme’. “It’s an honour to take the next step and also get involved with soccer at this level of professionalism where different African nations are given the opportunity to compete against one another. What made it even more perfect is that the championship will be based in Durban, a city where we have strong roots because this is where Hollywoodbets originated,” said Dorkin. “We fully support Cosafa who are bringing top-quality soccer matches like these straight to the people of Durban with games taking place in Umlazi, KwaMashu as well as at the iconic Moses Mabhida Stadium. We look forward to seeing thousands of fans at the matches.” Zimbabwe are the defending champions of the regional trophy and get the defence of their title with a quarter-final clash against the winner of Group A that has Angola, Eswatini, Comoros and Mauritius.