The Chronicle THE memorial service for the late opposition Movement for Democratic Change president Mr Morgan Tsvangirai was held at his rural home in Buhera on Saturday with the event uniting the ruling Zanu-PF party and the MDC. In the spirit of unity and inclusiveness, President Mnangagwa continues to support the Tsvangirai family and once again came to the aid of the former Prime Minister by providing financial and logistical support to the memorial service. On Friday, Government dispatched two graders to clear the road linking Murambinda to Mr Tsvangirai’s homestead and on Saturday provided food for more than 5 000 people who thronged Humanikwa village in Buhera where the memorial service was held. Consistent with President Mnangagwa’s commitment to peace and unity in the country, he has fulfilled a pledge he made to the founding leader of the MDC by helping his family. Government is paying tuition fees for Mr Tsvangirai’s children in Australia and South Africa. When the late Mr Tsvangirai was ill, the State footed his medical bills in South Africa up to his death, provided air tickets for people who went to visit him and ferried his body to its burial after he succumbed to cancer of the colon in February last year. As a gesture to reciprocate the Government’s generosity, the Tsvangirai family invited President Mnangagwa and the ruling Zanu-PF party to the memorial and made it clear it didn’t want the event to be turned into a political rally. Speaking ahead of the memorial, younger brother to Mr Tsvangirai, Mr Manase Tsvangirai said the family felt indebted to President Mnangagwa. “As the Tsvangirai family, we are very grateful to President Mnangagwa and the Government for the continued support that they have been rendering to us starting from the illness of my brother in South Africa up to date when we are holding a memorial service for him. As I am sitting on my brother’s homestead right now, there are two graders clearing the road, tents are being pitched, Government has pledged to provide food that will be served to more than 5 000 people expected to come,” said Manase. “Had it not been for Government, I do not think that as a family we would have been able to manage this memorial. Of course, there are other individuals who have come to assist in some way but the Government, led by President Mnangagwa, has assisted us in a big way to ensure that the event succeeds.” Turning to the memorial, Manase said the wish of the family was that the event should not be used as a campaign platform. “We know that the MDC, which my brother led, is approaching its congress, and there might be a temptation for some to use the event as a campaign platform. This is why we were saying we are encouraging people not to put on self-serving regalia but regalia that espouses the work of Mr Tsvangirai whom we are commemorating,” he said. In the same spirit and for the first time since the July 30 harmonised elections, MDC president Mr Nelson Chamisa acknowledged President Mnangagwa and thanked him for extending support towards the memorial service. “Whenever something good has been done, we have to acknowledge. “If you accept me as a leader you listen to me, allow me to thank the presence of members of the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) who are maintaining order here. . . “I differ with (President) Mnangagwa in a lot of things, but when good things have been done, we should acknowledge,” he said while addressing the multitudes that attended the memorial service on Saturday. Speaking at the same event, Vimbai Tsvangirai-Java — daughter to the late politician and Glen View South Member of Parliament — described her father as a unifier. She thanked Government for supporting her late father’s memorial. “Our father was a unifier who managed to bring all Zimbabweans together. This memorial is important to us as we celebrate his life. It helps in bringing closure to the sad chapter of losing him,” she said. “I reiterate the call in thanking Government for the logistical and material support they rendered during this memorial, we are very appreciative of that,” she said. We applaud President Mnangagwa for his kind gesture and ensuring that the family of the late MDC leader is taken care of. This shows that the President is sincere and committed to maintaining peace and unity in the country. Government is also acknowledging the immense role played by Mr Tsvangirai during his time as Prime Minister in the inclusive Government. The current MDC leadership can contribute to upholding the legacy of Mr Tsvangirai by accepting the invitation sent out by President Mnangagwa for all political parties to take part in the ongoing dialogue aimed at uniting the country towards a common vision.