The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter POLICE have arrested four suspects from Bulawayo for vandalism and theft of Zesa copper cables worth more than RTGS $65 000. Criminal Investigation Department (CID) community relations and liaison officer, Detective Inspector Portia Chinho confirmed the arrest of the four suspects on Friday. She said the four had since appeared in court. “The quartet, Lungile Tshuma of Sizinda, Talent Kampaundi of Njube, Nkululeko Nkomo of Old Magwegwe and Henry Masaire of Lobengula West in Bulawayo are being charged with cutting or damaging any material used in connection with the generation, transmission, distribution or supply of electricity, as defined in section 60(A) (B) of the Electricity Act chapter 13:19,” said Det Insp Chino. She said on April 22, 2019 the four were at Tshuma’s residence in Sizinda cutting copper cables into smaller pieces before burning them. “During that time a police informant observed smoke that was rising from Tshuma’s residence, prompting him to investigate and he observed what the suspects were doing. Upon realising that they had been seen, the suspects attempted to silence the informant by offering him a RTGS$1 000 bribe, which the informant declined. The informant reported the suspects to the police,” said Det Insp Chinho. She said on the same day, police reacted to the report and arrested the suspects who led to the recovery of Zesa copper cables weighing 400kgs. Investigations carried out, she added, revealed that the suspects had committed a spate of similar offences in and around Gwanda. “The suspects appeared before Bulawayo Regional Court where they were remanded in custody to May 10, 2019 for trial commencement. “The total value of vandalised and stolen copper cables is RTGS$65 520 while copper valued at RTGS$26 208 was recovered,” said Det Insp Chino. In a related incident, police on Friday arrested eight suspects for vandalising a ZETDC transformer and stealing Zesa transformer copper windings in Mashonaland West province. Det Insp Chinho said this occurred at a ZESA power line at Chavechase B Farm in Chakari, Kadoma. “The eight suspects are Tapiwa Lice, Takawira Dube, Stanford Mukambiri, Shelton Kudzirunga, Blessed Kudzirunga, Isaac Kufakwepasi, Herbert Twadya and Edmore Kufakwepasi. “Five of the suspects are from Hintonville, Chegutu while the other three are from Kalembo Farm, Chegutu and they are all not employed,” said Det Insp Chino. She said late last month, the suspects went to Chavechase B Farm and tripped the overhead ZETDC power cables on an ST Rupert 11KVA. She added that they removed a 100 KVA transformer resulting in the spilling of the transformer oil. “The suspects went on to strip the transformer and stole three copper windings. They loaded their loot into their gate away car but they were intercepted by police at a roadblock along Chegutu-Chakari Road and they tried to evade arrest. “Police gave chase and the suspects’ vehicle landed into a ditch leading to the arrest of one of the suspects and the recovery of three Zesa transformer copper windings,” said Det Insp Chinho. She said the other suspects fled from the scene but interviews done led to the arrest of seven other suspects and the recovery of a heavy duty transformer MCB, a 30cm X 70mm copper cable and four transformer bolts from the suspects’ places of residence. “The total value of equipment stolen is $7 000 and was all recovered. The other suspect Tawanda Mapfumo is still at large and his whereabouts are currently not known. His last known address is number 37 Queen Elizabeth Street, Greendale, Harare. “Police are appealing to anyone with information that may lead to the arrest of the suspect to contact CID Minerals Flora and Fauna Unit Kadoma on 068 2127692 or 0242 790631 or any nearest police station,” said Det Insp Chino. She commended members of the public for their continued co-operation and support in the fight against crime and warned criminals against vandalism and theft from public utilities, saying it has a negative effect on the livelihood of people and the economy. – @pamelashumba1