The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent SONGBIRD Skhululekile “Skhu” Mpofu of the Hamba Nobani fame, who had been focusing on mothering duties, is now back on the music scene, full time. Skhu shot to fame in the early 2000s with Kwaito track Hamba Nobani that became a hit. The track featured her young brother PoZee. She said for the past couple of years, she has been trying to kick-start her career, but it has been difficult as she was trying to juggle her music career and being a mum. She once tried her hand at gospel music then went back to secular music and now she is back with a track dedicated to mothers titled Mama Wami. The Afro Fusion track was produced by award-winning hip hop artiste Cal Vin who features on it with rapper Thorne and Khulumani FM presenter Michel. It was launched on Skyz Metro FM last week. Speaking to Chronicle Showbiz, Skhu said this time she was back for good. “This time, I’m back for good. Music is addictive if it’s in your blood so there’s no time to retire or leave it as it always calls you back,” she said. Skhu said her child was now seven-years-old and not so much dependent on her. “When you’re married and have a baby, it doesn’t give you the time to pursue your career as a musician. But now that the baby is grown, I’m able to focus on my music career and even travel outside the country.” Speaking about the new song, Skhu said it was a dedication to all mothers for their unending love. “The song is to thank our parents, especially our mothers because sometimes we don’t get time to do something special for them. I just want people to appreciate mothers for giving birth and raising us to be the people who we are today,” said Skhu. Working with Cal Vin, Skhu said, was a way for her to connect with a younger audience. “I’m trying to blend my music in order to produce something different. With Cal Vin as a producer, I knew I’d get that new sound. Also, I wanted to use male artistes because we all know that men are mummy’s boys. So when they sing, it’ll come from the heart as their mothers are dear to them.” Skhu said the song was a precursor to an EP she is working on adding that she has plans to work with award-winning producer Oskid on one of the tracks. She said she admires how ExQ, who was from her generation, is still relevant in the music industry, something she also wants to emulate. “As a musician you have to be consistent. There came a time in my career where it was very hard to go on, but one should never have to stop and quit. “You have to move with the times whether albums do well or not and just be consistent. One day, your chance will come and a door will open.”