The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter A NEW company, Chemical Technology Africa, has opened shop in Bulawayo to close the supply gap of analytical instruments within the country’s chemical industry. The firm, which is located in Belmont industrial site, produces detergents for domestic and industrial use. In an interview last week, Chemical Technology Africa operations manger Mr Liberty Nyathi said in the long-term they would venture into manufacturing laboratory chemicals and equipment. “In the long-term, our mission is to scientifically equip the nation and we would work on research and development to manufacture laboratory chemicals, analytical equipment as well as automation equipment that can be used to promote value addition and beneficiation,” he said. For example, Mr Nyathi said they have a vision to manufacture automation equipment such as a floatation plant used in the mining industry to promote beneficiation of minerals. He said some mining entities were importing manufactured processing equipment and hiring technical experts from outside the country to come and assemble the technology locally. “But actually we can have the equipment manufactured here, it’s just the need of getting a mechanical engineer, electrician, and I as a chemist and metallurgist, we can design and set up the technology as we know the processes,” said Mr Nyathi. Mr Nyathi, who holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Biochemistry and Chemistry from the University of Zimbabwe, said his organisation also wants to play a role in supporting the small-scale mining industry by supplying the sector with technology to boost their output. “But for us to reach there, we need capital to buy the machinery and with such capital outlay, we can grow it as a revolving fund and expand our operations. For the smaller projects that we have at the moment we need US$50 000,” he said. Chemical Technology Africa produces detergents that include all-purpose sanitisers, tile cleaner, foaming hand wash, liquid hand wash and all of them are anti-bacteria and can kill the bacteria for more than 12 hours. “We have got products (pine disinfectant cleaner and hand wash) that we have manufactured targeting hospitals, schools and institutions of higher learning). “With the all-purpose cleaner, we are actually targeting food processing industries because the disinfectant is heavy-duty and it’s concentrated and sanitises,” said Mr Nyathi. “We also have degreaser, which is a heavy-duty degreaser, its water-based; it doesn’t burn or corrode unlike some of the brands that are available in the market and have caused accidents through burning.” The company is presently importing mining chemicals, water treatment chemicals and industrial chemicals supplying to the local market, particularly in Matabeleland region. Due to the existing procurement gap of analytical instruments and chemicals in the country, Mr Nyathi said his company will invest in research and development to cover the supply chain deficit. “We have also decided to meet the needs of the chemical industry after realising that there is a gap in the chemical industry in terms of procurement of analytical instruments, chemicals and related products. —@okazunga