The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent THE First Lady Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa is set to visit Matabeleland South Province tomorrow (Friday) and Saturday on a tour of rural health centres. She will also visit Nugget Mine in Matobo where five miners died after a tunnel collapsed. In an interview, Matabeleland South Provincial Administrator, Ms Sithandiwe Ncube, said the First Lady was set to tour Hlangano Clinic in Umzingwane and Natisa Clinic in Matobo on Friday. Ms Ncube said the First Lady is also expected to attend a Family Fun Day to be held at Pelandaba Stadium in Gwanda on Saturday. The First Lady is also expected to visit Nugget mine where some miners died after a tunnel collapsed. “We are expecting a visit from the First Lady Amai Auxillia Mnangagwa on Friday and Saturday. She will tour Hlangano Clinic in Umzingwane District and Natisa Clinic in Matobo District. She is also expected to visit Nugget Mine in Matobo where                                                                           some people died in a mining accident,” she said. “On Saturday she will attend a Fun Day at Pelandaba Stadium. Preparations are underway for the First Lady’s visit and we are looking forward to hosting her.” Matabeleland South Provincial Medical Director, Dr Rudo Chikodzore, said as the health sector they were pleased that the First Lady was going to tour health centres within the province. She said they hope that she will have an appreciation of some of the challenges being faced at rural health centres and possibly help find solutions to some challenges that are being faced there. Ministry of Youth Sports, Arts and Recreation Matabeleland South Provincial Deputy Director, Mr Elphas Siziba, said there were a number of sporting activities that were lined up for the Fun Day to be held on Saturday. He said the event would provide an opportunity for women and young girls to interact with the First Lady and for her to see them through sports. “On Saturday we will first have a clean-up exercise around town and then we will move to the stadium for our main event. “We will have various sporting activities such as marathon races, aerobics, relays, tug of war, soccer, netball and volley ball among others. “We will also have some fun games such as egg race, blindfold race, sack race, eating competition and we will also have traditional games found in Matabeleland South Province. “There will be lots of prizes for winners,” he said. —@DubeMatutu