The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter THE Bulawayo City Council (BCC) has said ongoing road rehabilitation works are part of its Emergency Roads Rehabilitation Programme [ERRP] funded by the local authority and the Zimbabwe National Road Administration (Zinara) to the tune of $10,4 million. Since last month, the local authority has been visible on the ground with its road rehabilitation projects underway especially in the Central Business District (CBD). Responding to questions from The Chronicle, BCC senior public relations officer Mrs Nesisa Mpofu said council added $5 million to the $5,4 million Zinara allocation to undertake the rehabilitation programme. “City of Bulawayo is undertaking an ERRP using allocations and disbursements from Zinara and contributions from Council. In its 2019 Annual budget, Council set aside $5 million while Zinara allocated the City of Bulawayo $5.4 million for the ERRP,” said Mrs Mpofu. “The ERRP comprises of the following: surfacing works in the CBD, resealing of sections of roads city wide and surfacing of reconstructed road sections.” She said the resealing exercise is being carried out along Hospital Road near Barbourfields, Nketa Drive, Rangemore Road, Steelworks / Khami Road along Westgate to Nketa Drive among other two major roads. Mrs Mpofu said the council would be resurfacing road sections in Nkulumane, Luveve 5, Maduma Road, Intemba to S Ngwenya (Shops), Masiyephambili Drive, Luveve to Makhosi among other major roads. “Besides road rehabilitation, we will continue with our general maintenance programmes which include drain cleaning, pothole patching, re-gravelling and tarring programmes,” she said. Meanwhile, in the latest council report, BCC said Zinara had only disbursed $250 000 for road maintenance works this year. “The road authority has only disbursed $247 919 for routine maintenance works in this current year. They had advised that they were likely to disburse approximately $471 000 during the month of April to cover part of the cost for overlay works on Matopos road”, read the report. Recently, Bulawayo Town Clerk Mr Christopher Dube said the road rehabilitation works would prolong the life of the city’s roads and improve accessibility. He appealed to residents and motorists to bear with those conducting the road rehabilitation programmes. – @nqotshili