The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls THE Chinese delegation of 343 business tourists lit up Victoria Falls resort town over the weekend as they filled the streets and booked for some tour activities. The delegation, which was accompanied by Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira, Matabeleland Provincial Affairs Minister Richard Moyo and officials from Zimbabwe Tourism Authority, landed in the resort town on Saturday afternoon and left yesterday. Upon arrival, the delegation – led by Mr He Liehui of Touchroad International – went for a boat cruise and a tour of the Rainforest. They were escorted in several buses around town. In the morning they visited various markets around town before a dinner at Elephant Hills where they wowed the crowd with opera performances coupled with music and dance. Speaking at the event, Minister Mupfumira said the partnership with the Asian country will lead to strategic economic gains. “This visit has been extraordinary and we would like to thank President Mnangagwa for welcoming our visitors. We had a business forum with them and some went to visit Great Zimbabwe before coming here today. “Zimbabwe and China have a long standing all-weather relationship and what we have started is transforming into a strategic partnership in line with what the two countries’ Presidents agreed on when they met,” said Minister Mupfumira. She appealed to the visitors to be Zimbabwe’s ambassadors. “We want you to be Zimbabwe ambassadors and tell China and the whole world to visit our country. We hope you will come again to visit,” said the Minister. Min Mupfumira also said that Government was already engaging towards a flight from China via Tanzania. Plans are also underway to open an office in Shanghai, China with the aim of linking up with Zimbabweans in Asia. Yesterday the group had a cultural lunch at the same venue before departing for Harare. The leader of the delegation Mr He said Zimbabwe has potential to be a world class destination. “This is our last day for the trip and we are grateful for the hospitality we received in Zimbabwe. The country has a lot of treasures and we believe it will be a world class destination in future,” he said, while promising to assist Government in developing the Shanghai office. Before coming to Zimbabwe, the delegation visited Djibouti.-@ncubeleon