The Chronicle Fidelis Munyoro, Harare Bureau PRESIDENT Mnangagwa has assured medical doctors at public institutions that Government will ensure hospitals are fully stocked with drugs and medical equipment while looking at their welfare. The Head of State met a delegation of doctors at State House in Harare yesterday in an indaba arranged by the First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa, who is also the Ambassador of Health and Child Care, as a follow up to the previous meeting early this year. The meeting mainly centred on the working environment of the medical practitioners and their tools of trade. Head of delegation Dr Faith Muchemwa told journalists after the meeting that they were leaving the State House satisfied. She said they were invited to the State House by the First Lady, who has shown a deep concern about their work in health institutions. “She initially invited us so that she could understand what was really going on because she cared about the health of the population,” she said. “She arranged for us to meet His Excellency.” Dr Muchemwa said the meeting went well and expressed confidence that their plight could soon be a thing of the past. “It has been a really good meeting and we were listened to,” she said. “We have been assured that most of the things that we have been requiring are actually already on their way through the Honourable Minister (Obadiah Moyo). Dr Muchemwa, however, could not give the finer details of their wish list, which consists among other things, sundries, drugs and medical equipment. She was certain that Government would deliver its promise and had no reason to doubt President Mnangagwa’s assurance to address their challenges. “I am a doctor and have got a lot of faith,” she said adding that: “The meeting was for us to be able to work in a set environment for doctors to provide good service for the patients. The issue of remuneration was not even on the agenda.” Health and Child Care Minister Dr Moyo also attended the meeting. He said President Mnangagwa promised to address the plight of the doctors, saying their wish list was relevant. “The President indicated that he will try and achieve their wish list,” he said. “These are items required in our institutions and the President was very receptive.” Minister Moyo said the President was going to utilise his influence to be able to get the requested products and ensure that all the hospitals are fully stocked.