The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE national dam level average now stands at 67,2 percent as water levels continue to decline due to little or no inflows and an upsurge in withdrawals, the Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa) has said. Areas such as Bulawayo, Beitbridge, Mutawatawa and Shurugwi, according to the authority, are likely to experience water stress. The authority’s dam level statistics show that as at May 17, 2019, the national dam average was 67,2 percent, marking a 0,25 decline from May 13, 2019. Zinwa’s corporate communications and marketing manager, Mrs Marjorie Munyonga said the dam levels are 15,8 percent lower than the 83 percent recorded during the same week last year. “Dam levels continue on the downward trajectory as most rivers have stopped flowing while the commencement of the winter cropping season has resulted in increased outflows from the dams. “As of May 17, 2019, the national dam level average stood at 67,2 percent representing a 0,25 percent drop since May 13, 2019. Gwayi catchment has a dam level average of 61,6 percent, Manyame 88,3 percent, Mazowe 93,6 percent, Mzingwane 63, 4 percent, Runde 56,8 percent, Sanyati 72,1 percent and Save 81 percent,” said Mrs Munyonga. She added that Lower Ncema was at 76,7 percent while Inyankuni was at 60,1 percent and Bubi-Lupane and Insukamini were at 76,7 percent and 53,8 percent respectively. Despite this decline, Mrs Munyonga said the water in most of the dams is sufficient to meet the country’s domestic and irrigation requirements. “In light of these depressed dam levels, Zinwa appeals to all individuals and organisations intending to use raw water from Zinwa managed dams to ensure that such use is within the confines of the law. “Irrigators are advised to obtain water abstraction agreements from their respective catchment offices in order for them to have water allocations reserved in the dams,” said Mrs Munyonga. She said using water from Zinwa managed dams without the requisite documentation constitutes a criminal offence and also makes it difficult for the authority to efficiently and properly plan for the available water resources. As Bulawayo is one of the areas that will be hit by severe water shortages, the Bulawayo City Council has introduced a 48-hour water shedding schedule in all suburbs to save water. – @pamelashumba1