The Chronicle Lenox Lizwi Mhlanga THE expectation is that I write about the just ended Zimbabwe International Trade Fair. Those that attended will tell you that it was a roaring success. I am conflicted, so I will just say that it was fun and that as the people of Bulawayo, we really outdid ourselves. We took up the challenge and showed how it’s done. For that I am proud to be a son of the city. But it’s in another light that this article is focused. I do not envy the mums who were lugging “imithwalo” around the showgrounds. Call it motherly love or blackmail, the number of them moving around reminded me of the time we were kids and Trade Fair time was one to look forward to during the first term holidays. Never mind the stress of raising the necessary finances to take care of the inordinate demands of four kids, my mother was the quintessential heroine. She took it all in her stride and had the maid to boot. Our maid did not like the excursion one bit because she will be “herding” us along when she could be looking for catches. Anyway, I admire the patience and resolve of mothers taking their kids to the Fair and the adjacent Luna Park. I always wonder where the fathers will be. Perhaps they are content with funding the escapades and retreating to the nearest bar until they are summoned for some top up. Other mothers who are experienced have a ready solution. Tag the younger kids to an older one (or the maid) and then agree where to meet at a specific place and time. That would allow both parties to their own devices. Losing kids at the Trade fair is common which is why there are police posts and public address systems that will guide concerned parents to their lost and found. Thank God that the showgrounds are an enclosed space. The kids won’t go far and there is plenty to keep them occupied the whole day. Until they go hungry. My mother had the perfect solution. Because of extortionate prices of food at the fair, she prepared meals in advance. She ensured that it wasn’t junk food. Perhaps she would budget for fizzy drinks and candy floss or those toys that would self-destruct the minute you leave the showgrounds. Our Junior, who has not shown that much interest in the annual showcase, visited the Trade Fair on Friday. The day his father was director of ceremonies at the official opening proceedings. His excitement was heightened because of the Airforce display. You see, he wants to be a pilot so it is understandable. His only regret was missing the skydivers otherwise for him, ZITF was complete by just visiting the arena where helicopters were buzzing around and doing all sorts of acrobatics. He has not stopped talking about those. I guess that is the whole point. Give the kids something to talk and write about when schools open next week. I am sure that their teachers will have enough material to keep them busy marking the whole term. On another note, in honour of our late father who was president at Highlanders Football Club, our charity sourced and presented a brand new wheelchair to the club’s number one fan, Melusi Khumalo. It was an emotional experience for me and my sister Iris and ace photographer Lucky Moyo. You see, Melusi’s mother, MaKhoza, suffered a stroke. So the situation at the Khumalo household was dire. But we are glad that we and our generous partners have put smiles on the faces of that family. We have adopted them for more assistance and have pledged to look at their other needs. We picked Melusi up from Barbourfields Stadium where he was watching his favourite team practice. Never mind the lean run that Highlanders is experiencing. It was great to meet the coaching staff led by my friend Madinda Ndlovu, my sons’ boyhood hero. I told him that all was well and we were commemorating our late father’s birthday on May 5 by assisting Melusi on behalf of the charity. Our hearts could have been broke in a thousand pieces, but the smile on Melusi and his mother’s faces was priceless. My proposal is that they grant Melusi life membership of his and our favourite club if it’s the least that Highlanders executive can do.