The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Zifa vice president and Member of Parliament for Vungu Constituency, Omega Sibanda, has called for a sober and mature approach to problems bedevilling Highlanders Football Club, warning that emotional decisions will return to haunt the club. Sibanda, who is a card carrying life member of the club, said Bosso were going through one of the most trying times, which, if not handled properly, could see them failing to recover from the disastrous start to the 2019 Premiership campaign in which they have failed to win in seven games. “These are not normal times like what coach Madinda Ndlovu rightfully said and there is a need for members to engage in sober and mature dialogue to extricate the club from this mess. “No one must point fingers at anyone here; it must not be a blame game at the moment, but people just need to meet and try to find a solution,” said Sibanda. “A serious level of unity of purpose is required now more than ever. We need to solve whatever problems are there as one big united family and I am sure once we all pull in one direction, we will be able to find a solution, but this needs to be done with a sober and mature approach.” His call echoes that of two former chairmen Ernest ‘Maphepha’ Sibanda and Themba Ndlela, and former vice-chairman Sikhanyiso Moyo as well as some members, who suggested that an emergency meeting be called instead of waiting for the constitutional mid-year review meeting. The Highlanders’ problems erupted before the start of the season when players downed tools over unpaid salaries and abandoned pre-season training. When normalcy returned, the club was again thrown into confusion by the chief executive officer’s contract matter which resulted in vice-chairman Modern Ngwenya and secretary-general Israel Moyo being suspended pending a hearing. While the generality of members and supporters are in unison calling for an urgent meeting to resolve the crisis, the club’s leadership has remained mum and as a result, the blame game continues. “It’s sad that we have some among us who don’t want to take responsibility, but instead are still busy blaming the poor showing by the boys on some unknown third force. “We even have people hired to denigrate members on social media all at the behest of some of us, which is quite unfortunate, especially at a time like this when we all need to pull together in one direction,” said an insider, who requested anonymity.