The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A SEVEN-month-old infant died on the spot while his mother escaped with serious injuries when they were hit by a vehicle as the woman was crossing the road carrying her baby on her back. Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson Chief Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the incident which occurred on Sunday at around 6AM at the 81 kilometre peg along the Bulawayo-Beitbridge Road. He said Zandile Gumede (21) was hit by a BMW vehicle while attempting to cross the road after disembarking from another vehicle. “I can confirm that we recorded an incident where a seven-month-old baby, Bukhosi Dube, died on the spot while his mother sustained injuries after they were hit by a car. Zandile Gumede was carrying her baby on her back when she disembarked from a                                                                                                     vehicle and then attempted to cross the road,” he said. “In the process she was hit by a BMW vehicle that was travelling along the same road. Her baby died on the spot after sustaining severe injuries while Gumede sustained a broken right leg and head injuries. She was taken to the United Bulawayo Hospitals where she is reported to be in a serious condition.” Chief Insp Ndebele urged pedestrians to be careful when crossing the road. He said after disembarking from a vehicle, pedestrians must cross the road from behind that vehicle. Chief Insp Ndebele also urged pedestrians to ensure that the road is clear before attempting to cross. He also urged motorists to be on the lookout when travelling on the roads. In another incident, a 15-year-old Kezi boy died on the spot after a scotch cart he was travelling in with his 18-year-old cousin overturned. Chief Insp Ndebele said the accident occurred on Saturday at around 11AM in Tshiphisani Village. “Tobias Nyathi and his cousin brother aged 18 years old had gone to fetch water from a river and on their way back Tobias, who was controlling the animals, failed to negotiate his way through some trees. The scotch cart bumped into one of the trees and Tobias was thrown out and he hit against a tree. “Tobias sustained several injuries and died on the spot while his cousin escaped with bruises. The matter was reported to the police who attended the scene and the body was taken to Maphisa District Hospital Mortuary,” he said. —@DubeMatutu