The Chronicle SOUTH Africa have, of course, played plenty of internationals in Durban since their readmission to international football in 1992, but for many of the teams at the 2019 Cosafa Cup, it will not be their first visit to the coastal city either. Nine have played in Durban as well down the years, admittedly with little success against Bafana Bafana, and have also taken on other African nations in continental competitions. It will mean some familiar territory when the Cosafa Cup is played this year from May 25 to June 8. Here is a look at each Cosafa nation has fared in Durban in the past. Angola Angola have played twice before in Durban, but only one of those was against South Africa. They played to a thrilling 3-3 draw with Cameroon in an Africa Cup of Nations finals pool fixture in 1996, and would not return until 17 years later when they clashed with South Africa in the continental finals again. That match finished 2-0 to the home side in January 2013. Botswana The Zebras have played twice before in Durban, but ended up on the losing side on both occasions. The first was a friendly international in January 2008 that was won 2-1 by Bafana Bafana, before the teams clashed again in a 2014 World Cup qualifier that saw the home side triumph 4-1, current national team star Dean Furman on target for Bafana. Madagascar Madagascar played a friendly international against Bafana Bafana in May 2002, but lost 1-0 as Thabo Mngomeni scored the winner in front of some 35 000 fans. Malawi The Flames have played in Durban on three previous occasions, falling short in each encounter against South Africa. They lost a 2002 World Cup qualifier there 2-0 with a game that was played at the King’s Park Rugby Stadium, before a 1-0 loss in the 2002 Cosafa Cup final, second-leg at the same venue when Bafana Bafana were crowned champions. Malawi returned for a friendly at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in 2012 and lost that 3-1. Mauritius The island nation have been to Durban just once and lost a 2000 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier 2-0 to Bafana Bafana, with Thabo Mngomeni and Benni McCarthy on target for the home side. Mozambique The Mambas felt the bite of Bafana Bafana as they went down 2-0 in a friendly international played in January 2008, just before the Africa Cup of Nations that year. Sibusiso Zuma and Lerato Chabangu were on target for the home side. Namibia Namibia are the only Cosafa side to leave Durban without a defeat to Bafana Bafana when they played to a 1-1 draw in March 2010, just months before the start of the Fifa World Cup in South Africa. Rudolph Bester put Namibia ahead just before halftime, but Katlego Mphela equalised for the home team with 20 minutes remaining. Zambia Zambia have played in Durban once before, but never against Bafana Bafana. Their match was a 1996 Africa Cup of Nations semi-final where they lost 4-2 to Tunisia at the King’s Park Rugby Stadium. Zimbabwe Zimbabwe arrived for a friendly international in January 2010 and were defeated 3-0 by a Bafana Bafana side on their way to the World Cup on home soil a few months later. — Cosafa