The Chronicle Abel Zhakata in Ngaone, Chipinge GOVERNMENT will quickly resolve concerns and grievances raised by 13 chiefs from Chipinge and Chimanimani whose communities were ravaged by Cyclone Idai, President Mnangagwa has said. While addressing thousands of villagers at Ngaone High School in Chipinge yesterday soon after he held a closed door meeting with the chiefs, President Mnangagwa said meaningful reconstruction can only be achieved with the input and blessings of the traditional leaders. The meeting was also attended by Vice President Kembo Mohadi as well as several Government ministers. He said following the cyclone disaster, Government departments quickly embarked on a rescue mission and in the process, left out traditional leaders in the ensuing haste. “We have asked for forgiveness and we have been forgiven. Our chiefs have registered a lot of grievances which we will act on in order to bring about rural industrialisation to the two districts,” he said. The chiefs from the two districts led by Chief Mutema opened up and told President Mnangagwa their grievances that bordered on the effects of Cyclone Idai and broader concerns affecting their communities and development. The President promised them that Government would quickly resolve their concerns and grievances. President Mnangagwa said Government was not embarking on piece meal rehabilitation works in Chipinge and Chimanimani but implementing sweeping rural industrialisation development strategies. He said the disastrous effects of Cyclone Idai were an eye opener. “My ministers are not going to leave this place until all the roads are rehabilitated. We are not talking of repairing only those that were washed away but upgrading the whole network. Those that need to be tarred will be tarred for sure. “We received enough medication for various ailments. I want to praise doctors here for making personal sacrifices to assist affected communities. They are doing a great job,” he said. He singled out two junior doctors whom he said walked long distances to reach Chimanimani and help patients in Ngangu. “I do not know what I am going to do for these two doctors but I am going to do something,” he said. Turning to the exploration of various agricultural and mineral endowments in the districts as presented by the chiefs, President Mnangagwa said more needs to be done to promote tourism, horticulture as well as ensuring that diamonds that are being mined there benefit locals like what is happening in Chiadzwa.