The Chronicle Midlands Bureau GWERU-based property investment company, Greynut Investments, has partnered with FBC Micro Plan and National Building Society (NBS) to roll out a multimillion dollar housing scheme at Bucks farm, along Lower Gweru Road. Greynut Investments now has a special tailor made facility with FBC Micro Plan to finance land purchase and mortgage facility while NBS is expected to cover house construction for home seekers in the low to middle income category like civil servants. The company together with FBC and NBS representatives met over 200 potential home seekers at the weekend in Gweru to cement the partnership that is expected to benefit more than 3 000 home seekers. Mr Regis Madzimure, a regional manager for FBC Micro Plan said Greynut clients were eligible for a housing loan of up to 15 times their salary. “As FBC Micro Plan we are a subsidiary of FBC Bank and we are here to economically empower low and middle income earners. “We have an assortment of loans for vendors, farmers, small businesses that include tuckshop owners. “With this Micro mortgage facility we can give housing loans of up to 15 times net salary at very low interest rates as we seek to economically empower the people,” he said. Mr Munyaradzi Ranganai of NBS said their sole purpose was to put a roof over people’s heads adding that special loans were in place for Greynut members.  “We offer both micro and full mortgage packages. In partnership with Greynut Investments, we are open and comitted to ensure people own houses,” he said. Greynut operations manager, Mr Jameson Museke said his company now has dispensation certificates, a development that will see their clients getting individual title deeds. “This has been achieved within a year, yet development cycle normally takes up to four years. “People out there have suffered as a result of bogus land developers. “We have tangible works on the ground and our promise is that every cent will be put to good use,” he said. Mr Museke said for potential home seekers to avoid being duped by bogus land developers, they should check with both Government and council before paying their money “It is so disturbing that people are duped day in and day out thereby shattering their hopes of becoming landlords,” he said.