The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Showbiz Reporter DO musicians tend to forget those who helped them climb the ladder of fame or it’s a matter of using the ordinary people as steps to the top and then dump them when popularity knocks at their doors? The likes of gospel musician Mathias Mhere for example, started their careers by featuring comedians like Sabhuku Vharazipi and Mbuya John in their songs and now fans are curious to know why he is no longer working with them. The Favour hit-maker, who roped in some of the country’s finest producers in the mould of Oskid, Lyton Ngolomi, Maselo, Tatenda Viali and Macdonald “Mac Dee” Chidavaenzi for his upcoming album Greater Than Solomon told Saturday Leisure that he has not forgotten his ‘old friends’ but is simply developing his career. “I don’t deny that during my early albums, I featured locals like Sabhuku Vharazipi in my song Pamazuva Angu Mwari. But in as much as I appreciate my old friends, it should be clear that I’m not dumping them. “As the audience grows, we seek to bring diverse voices and grow fan bases,” he explained. The trending gospel musician said he is now working with artistes from outside the country as his desire is to go regional. “I appreciate those who raised me from humble beginnings and agreed to work with me, but now, we’re looking into attracting fans from across the world. This is why I need to bring voices of prominent people whom my targeted audience can easily relate with,” he said. Mhere said by roping in popular musicians like Jah Prayzah, it helps introduce him to their fans, thereby growing his fan base as well. “I’ve engaged top musicians in my forthcoming album, namely Skeffa Chimoto from Malawi, Jah Prayzah and Mudhara Bhosvo (ZCC). “These are known artistes who have established fans and I am pretty sure their voices will introduce me to their fans.” He said his forthcoming album is a fusion of old and new sounds as he seeks to attract more fans, at the same time, serving old ones. “Diversity attracts different types of fans. I know I have followers who have been with me since years back and they are crying for the old Mhere while new fans are pushing the new Mhere to release more. “My new album is a fusion of both old and new sounds and I’m also going to feature the likes of Kapfupi in my next albums,” he said. To date, Mhere has seven albums namely Tinoda Nyasha, Anoita Minana, Nguva yeNyasha, Glory to Glory, Double Double, and Anoita Minana. — @tamary98