The Chronicle Showbiz Correspondent BULAWAYO creatives will have a chance to hone their skills as a Project Africa 102 Style and Development Workshop will be held in the city with leading industry experts. The venue for the workshop is Ster Kinekor at the Bulawayo Centre and it will be held over three days, May 9, 10 and 11. There will be a mixture of local and international speakers such as industrialist and presidential advisor Busisa Moyo, Samantha Tshuma, Gilmore Tee and Saimon Mambazo from Zimbabwe. Internationally, the likes of guest speaker John C Ablaza, a couture designer from the Philippines, Emily Bolanos, a Canadian actress, Vic Rich and Daniel. Some of the topics that will be tackled include Branding, Grooming and Deportment, Mental and Emotional Health, Women Empowerment and Editorial Photography. To be part of the workshop artistes have to part with USD$5. Project Africa 102 Public Relations and Social Media Consultant Sherine Taylor said they were excited to be hosting the workshops that will contribute to the growth of Bulawayo creatives. “We want to see the creative sector grow in learning, exposure and the goal is with the help of this programme to create international platforms for our artistes to showcase. The goal is to bridge the gap between our artisans and the rest of the world. “They have the talent and the products, now how can we assist them to showcase to an international market and export to the rest of the world,” said Taylor. She said after the workshops the team will visit various spots around the city to donate goods. “We’ve then lined up an attendance by this team who are passionate about giving back, a collaboration with Feed the City Bulawayo, Thabiso Youth Centre in Makokoba, Beautiful Homes in Matobo and various other charities. We will be visiting these areas with some donations as well,” said Taylor. Shutting down the three day workshop will be a fashion show at Banff Lodge on May 14. The fashion show will showcase designs from John C Alaza, Pierre-Lyn Arcega, Medjy Mezilus and local designers in the city.