The Chronicle Andile Tshuma The chilly season is upon us and we are all looking forward to spending more time indoors. The Meteorological Services Department issued a chilling warning (excuse the pun) on cold days ahead. They said members of the public must not be fooled by the prevailing sunny mornings, chilly days are just ahead. Winter time presents a higher likelihood to develop cold and flu than any other season. This unfortunately is a season also characterised by a lot of accidents in the home. Children are burnt by leaking water bottles, houses gutted by fires when we leave candles or heaters on. We must all be very careful at this time. Retired Bulawayo Chief Fire Officer Mr Richard Peterson often issued statements to the public warning on fires and leaving flames unattended. We love our devices that keep us toasty during cold winter days. But space heaters, electric blankets and heating pads can cause serious house fires if not maintained and used safely. To reduce the risk of house fires, only use these devices before bed, and unplug them before you go to sleep. While the winter season might increase the risk for weather-related injury, the biggest risk to our overall health is a lack of attention to diet and exercise routines. The chilly and unpleasant weather can also make it very difficult to find the motivation to get to the gym or head outdoors for exercises. In tandem with this, the additional time spent indoors means many of us snack more than we would typically at other times of the year. This combination can quickly add on the extra kilos and reduce our happiness and self-esteem over time. Maintaining proper diet and exercise routines is also necessary to ward off illness. Making sure that children are well fed and dressed in the chilly weather is essential. No matter how cold winter days may be, it will not stop children from wanting to go out and play in the streets or in the backyard. The best way to manage them is to ensure that they are wearing warm clothes that are weather appropriate and shield them from wind and cold. It is good to snack on healthier foods and avoid eating unhealthy food. During winter, eating can be a very convenient pass time as a lot of time is spent indoors as the outdoor world will be not so friendly. Pastime activities are limited indoors and many people will find themselves binging on television series and loads of food, which is not the best. According to research, the cold season tends to ignite our cravings for more carbohydrates and comfort foods. This is because after you consume these delicious treats, your serotonin levels rise, making your brain think you are happier. And as the day wears on, your carb cravings get stronger and stronger. To counter this, try eating a protein-packed breakfast to keep your energy levels up throughout the day. If by the time the afternoon rolls around you’re still craving sweets or carbs, be sure to have low-fat and healthy snacks on hand. However, if you can, finding a way to increase your serotonin levels without food is the best way to beat the carb cravings. Another way to boost healthy eating is the introduction of omega 3 rich dishes in our diets. Omega 3 fatty acids are a healthy type of fat that are naturally found in many food types including fish, plant seeds and nuts. Omega 3 fatty acids are great for reducing joint pain and stiffness as they are a natural anti-inflammatory. Studies have also shown that omega 3 fatty acids help lower levels of depression, which people commonly feel during the shorter days of winter. Keeping lemons, ginger, garlic and honey will help treat colds and flu while also adding variety to beverage options. Drinking hot water with lemon and honey or ginger and honey provides tasty beverages, with lots of health benefits too. Lemons are readily available across the city. They are much cheaper in areas near the market place. They are also readily available from vendors around the city’s taxi ranks such as Pick n Pay Hyper taxi rank, the Egodini area taxi rank, 6th Avenue taxi rank and Fort 11 Flea Market taxi ranks. You can also check at the City Hall fruit and vegetable stalls and supermarkets. Lemons make tasty hot and cold beverages, but with the season upon us, a hot beverage could help keep the frost bites away and help keep away the cold. There are many types of herbal teas that can help you stay healthy. Herbal teas like lemon and chamomile can ease depression and anxiety by calming nerves and relaxing your body. They can also help you sleep better. Some herbal teas like green and Rooibos are great as antioxidants. For the most benefit be sure to look for organic teas made from high-quality ingredients. Cooking with spices adds flavour and taste to your dishes.  However, studies have shown the health benefits of a number of condiments and spices. Onions, garlic, ginger and cilantro are the perfect items to add flavour to your dishes.  Not only do they make food taste great, but they’re also shown to help improve immune function. Turmeric is a spice traditionally used in Chinese and Indian medicine. Its main active ingredient is called curcumin, which gives curry its yellow colour. This spice helps to combat a number of conditions including inflammation and heart disease, and it acts as a powerful antioxidant. Planning exercise routines well in advance can help you stick to a routine better and also help you to keep track of your effort. Try to stick to a weekly exercise plan so you don’t put off your regular exercise activities. For instance, on a Sunday night, write down your exercise schedule for the next seven days. Choose your exact workout routines, activities or exercises for each day and how long they will be. Knowing what you’re scheduled to do each day ahead of time makes it easier to stick to. If you can, line up your workout schedule with a friend to encourage each other to stick with it and stay motivated. Exercising at home can be a good idea if the weather is too bad and outdoor exercise just won’t cut it, or if you are pressed for time. If you have no desire to head outdoors for your workout, then never fear. There are plenty of resources online that supply fun workout videos and exercises. And, because we spend more time indoors, winter increases the risk of at-home accidents as well, including fires and falls. As we celebrate Africa Day whose theme for this year is “Healthy Lifestyle prolongs life”, take your health and lifestyle seriously. This theme has been selected to emphasise the significant relationship between unhealthy lifestyle and premature mortality. The theme is in line with Aspiration 1 of the Agenda 2063 which is “Prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development”. This therefore becomes an opportune time for all of us as Africans to celebrate the day while carrying out lifestyle and health audits and ensuring that our health is on check. Besides, we’re all a little happier when we’re healthy as our health is our greatest wealth. Happy Africa Day! — @andile_tshuma