The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent Philippine’s Eco-Couture designer John C Ablaza believes that Zimbabwe has unique fashion designs that the world should see. Ablaza who has nearly 30 years experience as a fashion designer, is in the country for Style and Development Workshops that started in Bulawayo on Thursday and end today. The workshops are being organised by Open Eye Studio. The designer who has worked in America and Canada said he was pained to see that there are many talented young designers struggling to follow their dreams in Zimbabwe. “I’ve mixed emotions in terms of what I’ve seen in the fashion designing industry in Zimbabwe. “Meeting the designers here made me very happy and sad. “I’m happy because I saw how the works are worldclass and can compete globally but the designers have so many challenges,” said Ablaza. “They have to be patient and work hard so that they can reach that international level. “I’m just showing them how to get there and they should sustain themselves with their fashion design talent. “I know there are struggles and challenges here in Zimbabwe in terms of finances and all, but the day will come for them to showcase their work.” Ablaza said he wanted to share his knowledge with aspiring designers and hopefully make them competitive globally. “I want designers from Zimbabwe  to have designs that have a global appeal. “They shouldn’t discard their cultural roots because this is what makes their designs unique and competitive in the global market.” “That’s why I’m here, to share my experiences for the past 30 years in the design industry globally. “I want them to reach the next level for them to compete globally at places like New York.” Ablaza said nothing beats being original. “If you go western or European, you won’t succeed because there are people who’ve been doing that for a long time. “No one can rival your culture. I produce designs that have a global look, but rooted in my Philippine culture,” said Ablaza. This is Ablaza’s second visit to Zimbabwe after his initial one in 2016, courtesy of the then American Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Harry Thomas. As part of his visit, Ablaza will hold a fashion show at Banff Lodge next Tuesday where he will showcase 15 designs from his collection. Some designers who have attended the workshops so far are Empress Primy, Nkanyezi Malunga and Ribelle Lynn.