The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter THEY say life begins at 40 and for actress and radio host Tinopona ‘Tin Tin’ Katsande who turned 40 on May 3, her 40th year alive is a defining one for her personal growth. Tin Tin, who has been in the showbiz industry for over a decade, first appeared on TV screens in 2002 when she featured in the ZBCtv soapie Studio 263 as Joyce Huni. From there, she developed a huge fan base and has remained a darling of many. Reflecting on her 40 years, the media personality counted her blessings. “It feels awesome being 40. I thank the Lord that I’m still alive and I’m in a great space with my God, family and those that really matter. I feel my 40th year will be a defining one in my personal growth as I’ve no more space for bad karma,” she said. Most media personalities, especially those in the showbiz industry, often make mistakes along the way in their career. Tin Tin has not been spared as she has had her bad moments but she said she has gained great life experiences. “Being a public figure has affected my personal life as far as perception is concerned, but sticking to my focus and knowing who I am, what I want to achieve and my worth, is what keeps me going. “I’ve learnt to embrace that gossip, prying and potential destruction are part of the ‘celeb package’. There are a lot of people who thought I’d not even reach 40 or I’d be nothing by the time I reach this age, but I thank God that I’ve remained relevant and positively influential in the Zimbabwean entertainment business,” said Tin Tin. She said she has many memorable moments in her life but giving birth to her son, Yambuko, was one that stood out. “There have been tons of memorable moments in my career and it would be ludicrous to pick just one, but undoubtedly, the birth of my son is to date, the most memorable of my personal life’s journey.” Yambuko is very dear to Tin Tin as she had fertility issues and in 2014, suffered from endometriosis. But after being told she might not bear children, she had a bouncing baby boy the next year. It’s almost everyone’s dream to be remembered for something in life and Tin Tin wants to be remembered for her great works. “I endeavour to continue to live a life that is my life. I’m all about living my life learning and sharing knowledge so that hopefully, it may help someone else who may be going through the same or similar experience. I also believe in passing the torch to the younger generation and empowering them to do better than I have, but in their own way as we’re all made uniquely.” She said whenever she feels low she finds comfort in reading the Bible. “The Bible is awesome I tell you, I love it. And through my meditation with God, different people come at different times in different situations. I surround myself with positive people like my muzukuru (nephew), radio personality Tonderai Katsande, my (muroora) Wadzanai Garwe and my friend and counsellor pastor Rogers Nhari who constantly give me different perspectives in difficult situations.” Having lived most of her life in front of the camera or behind the microphone, The ZiFM Stereo radio host said she was not going to quit radio or TV anytime soon as she still has a lot to offer. “While I’m still featuring in front of the camera and on radio which I do not see myself quitting anytime soon, my focus now is on training and empowerment of upcoming actors and radio personalities through my Impeccable Tin Tin Coaching Clinics across the country and online.”