The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT has partnered some non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to provide counselling to learners and teachers in Cyclone Idai-hit schools in Manicaland province. More than 90 000 pupils were affected after 143 schools were damaged by Cyclone Idai in the province. In an interview, Primary and Secondary Education Deputy Minister, Edgar Moyo said while efforts are being made to rehabilitate schools, Government has noted that most learners and teachers are failing to cope due to traumaof losing loved ones. “The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education in partnership with other organisations has deployed trained staff members to provide counselling to teachers and learners. This is an emotional situation where teachers and learners are in need of intense counselling so that they can cope with the new environment after losing loved ones. We are investing in counselling to bring life back to normalcy,” he said. Deputy Minister Moyo said the Ministry had engaged a number of organisations for counselling. “We saw if fit to engage different experts in counselling as we believe this was a national disaster and assisting victims is a collective responsibility. Some organisations like Unicef went as far as assisting with equipment for learners to play games to relax,” he said. He said rehabilitation of schools is underway and they have managed to put temporary structures at some schools as construction work is underway. “Government is working to bring everything to normal and right now we have structures that are being built. Learners are being catered for because in some areas we have set up, for instance, temporary toilets as permanent ones are being constructed,” he said. In its latest update, Unicef said it is dedicated to working with Government in providing counselling services and some resources to bring normalcy in schools. “Unicef is working with Government and with funding from donors including the German Government and the Global Partnership for Education (GPE) is providing textbooks, recreational kits, and tents to create temporary learning spaces to provide affected children with an education and sense of normalcy in their lives,” read the update. Unicef said while the repair of damaged schools and a safe learning environment is critical, a recent Rapid Joint Education Needs Assessment (RJENA) carried out by the Education Cluster, led by the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education established that 66 percent of teachers felt that counselling was their greatest need. — @tamary98