The Chronicle Kylian Mbappe and Paris Saint-Germain were the big winners at the Union Nationale des Footballeurs Professionnels (UNFP) Football Awards Ceremony, with the wonderkid named Ligue 1 Player of the Year and Young Player of the Year. He was joined by five teammates in the Team of the Year, including Thiago Silva, Marquinhos, Angel Di Maria, Marco Verratti and Neymar, although the Brazilian was not in attendance. Lille duo Nicolas Pepe and stopper Mike Maignan, left-back Ferland Mendy and midfielder Tanguy Ndombele of Lyon and Strasbourg’s Kenny Lala completed the line-up. Mbappe, who finished as Ligue 1 top scorer with 30 goals, became the first player to be given the young player award for three successive seasons. He was first awarded it after winning Ligue 1 with Monaco in 2017 and retained it last season. Mbappe, who was presented with his award by Didier Drogba, said: “All the nominees have showed that they have talent. “I want to thank my teammates, the coach (Thomas Tuchel), who has given me the confidence I needed this year, and the club, who have kept me on the right path after the World Cup and allowed me to achieve big things. “I am the first and only player to win this title three times and making history is something I like doing.” Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema was named as the best French player in a foreign league, while Ligue 1 Goal of the season went to former Chelsea striker Loic Remy. Maignan, naturally, scooped the best goalkeeper award, with his boss Christophe Galtier named coach of the year. Referee Clement Turpin was the best official, with Michael Annonier the best assistant. The attendees also honoured former Nantes striker Emiliano Sala, who died when his plane crashed into the channel while travelling to new club Cardiff. President of LFP (French Professional League) Nathalie Boy de la Tour opened the ceremony with a tribute to Sala and his dad Horacio who both died this year Drogba was also acknowledged with the trophy of honour award during the night. This was given for his career and his work with his foundation, which helps to improve health and education in Africa. The ceremony also recognises the best talents in Ligue 2 and D1 Female, with Champions League winner Dzsenifer Maroszan claiming the women’s best player. In Ligue 2, Gaeten Charbonnier of runners-up Brest claimed the best player award, while Vincent Derconnay of Paris FC was best goalkeeper and best coach coach went to Clermont’s Pascal Gastien. ASNL star Wilfried Moimbe picked up best goal, with William Lavis best referee and best assistant going to Ludovic Reyer. A number of stars were in attendance at the awards, including former Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger and French World Cup winner Adil Rami, who attended with girlfriend Pamela Anderson. — mailonline