The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA have written a letter to Highlanders requesting the Bulawayo giants to apprise the national association about the suspension of two club executive committee members. The letter signed by Zifa chief executive officer Joseph Mamutse was addressed to Highlanders’ chairman Kenneth Mhlophe and delivered to Bosso on Tuesday afternoon. “We have learnt, through media reports, about goings on at Highlanders Football Club with regards to the suspension of some executive committee members. Highlanders being our affiliate, we would like to see stability prevailing at the club. Accordingly, we kindly request your office to furnish us with a written report on the matter preferably within 48 hours,” read Mamutse’s letter. Mamutse confirmed the correspondence yesterday and referred further inquiries to Zifa communications manager Xolisani Gwesela, who was not reachable. However, a source at Zifa said the national association was concerned by the unfolding instability at Highlanders as its affiliate. “A letter has been written to them asking for clarifications as to what is really happening as we have only been reading about the issue in the press. Just like they usually notify us when their congress elects office bearers, we are interested in knowing if that action was within their own statutes and whether it was done procedurally. “We are not interfering in the running of Highlanders, we just want to be apprised of the correct position just like Fifa demanded from us when the vice-president Gift Banda was suspended and even when there were plans to bar the president Felton Kamambo from contesting in last year’s elections. As their affiliate, Fifa wrote to us, not that they were interfering. This is what we have done to Highlanders as our affiliate. Their response is expected within 48 hours after which we hope to issue our position,” said the Zifa source. Bosso were thrown into chaos last week when the board suspended club vice-chairman Modern Ngwenya and secretary-general Israel Moyo for rejecting the renewal of chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube’s contract, which had expired on April 30. The two were accused of defying a recommendation by the club’s human resources committee to renew Dube’s contract over litigation fears. The human resources committee argued Dube should have been given at least two months’ notification before termination of his contract. According to a source, Article 28 of Dube’s contracts reads: “At its sole discretion and having regard to the performance of the employee (CEO), the employer (Highlanders) may extend or renew this contract for any further period on such terms as may be agreed then and shall notify the employee not later than two months before termination of the present agreement of such intentions to renew or extend the contract.” The decision to suspend Ngwenya and Moyo has reportedly divided the board and remaining members of the executive committee. Ngwenya and Moyo have now been served with their letters of suspension signed by board chairman Luke Mnkandla.