The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter Talen Vision 3-1 Toronto TALEN Vision came from a goal down to extend their unbeaten run in the Southern Region Division One Soccer League to five games, taking their points tally to 13, three ahead of Bulawayo City who play Mainline today. Thabiso Ndlela fired Toronto into the lead with a well taken 10th minute long-range curler that beat Vision’s goalkeeper London Zulu, before Grey Kufandada drew level in the 33rd minute to ease pressure on the leaders. Vision should have gone for halftime leading by a bigger margin but their forwards were wasteful, missing a glut of clear-cut chances. Brian Muza fired Vision into the lead in the 63rd minute, nodding home a Kudzi Dzingwe cross from the right. Former Bulawayo Chiefs and Chicken Inn striker Adrian Banana put the game to bed in the 80th minute firing a ferocious shot inside the penalty box. “We’re happy with the win, it’s still work in progress and the good thing is that in as much as we miss chances, we are able to score. We just have to go back to the training ground and work on our finishing,” said Mkhuphali Masuku, Vision coach. Toronto’s Ghetto Nkala said: “A lapse of concentration cost us. It was a game where we could have at least managed a draw. The boys fought hard and we just have to work on our transitions.” While Vision celebrates their hard-fought victory, a win for City who have banged an impressive 15 goals in four matches will see them bounce back to the top. Free scoring City whose goal scoring statistic is intimidating for opponents, have assembled arguably the strongest side in the league. “We’re not intimidated by big names in their camp and we’re not worried about how they have been playing because we’re in the same league and want points as well. To be a champion one has to beat a champion and we’re ready for them. We’ve prepared hard for this game and we want maximum points,” said Mainline manager Charlton Gumede. In their last home game, Mainline clobbered Toronto 5-1. Former Bulawayo Chiefs pair of defender Trust Musindo and attacking midfielder Thaluso Ndlovu, striking pair of veteran Victor Nkomo and ex-Bantu Rovers’ Zengempilo Khuphe carry Mainline’s hopes. Southern Region Division One Soccer League fixtures Today: Arenel Movers v Bosso 90 (Crescent, 3pm), Binga Pirates v Makomo (Binga, 3pm), Ajax Hotspurs v CIWU (Crescent, 12pm), Mainline v Bulawayo City (Plumtree, 3pm), Moto Moto v Nengasha (Cancelled), ZPC Hwange v Indlovu Iyanyathela (Hwange, 12pm), Mosi Rovers v Casmyn (Chinotimba, 3pm)