The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Health Reporter MOST communities in Zimbabwe and in the world still prefer the birth of sons over daughters, a development which a recently released State of World Population (SWOP) 2019 report says contributes to high birth rates which directly affect the development of any country. According to the SWOP published by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), son preference tends to put pressure on women and many have been subjected to violence and discrimination for giving birth to girls. Families that have girls, the report shows, will often try for “one more” child until they get a son. In Zimbabwe the average number of births per woman was once at 3,8 in 2015 and is now estimated to stand at 2,5. “Reproduction is seen as a fundamental part of social ideals of both masculinity and femininity; both men and women can face considerable pressure to prove their fertility early in marital relationships. However, there is a prevalent trend where son preference in many communities often leads to unnecessary births of girls while a family is looking for a son,” read the report. SWOP says the son preference itself is a reflection of deeply held and inequitable views of the intrinsic value of men and women. “Women face extreme pressure to bear sons and may encounter violence, abandonment or stigma for birthing girls instead of boys. Under these circumstances, women have little power, voice or choice and therefore little autonomy,” read the report. Child marriages according to the report are still prevalent in most communities and put the lives of young women at risk. An estimated 800 million women alive today were married when they were children according to SWOP 2019. “Child marriage denies a girl agency and autonomy in her home and in sexual and reproductive decisions, reduces her chance of being educated, undermines her future and blocks her from realising her full potential in life. Married girls are less likely than adult women to receive adequate medical care during pregnancy, and that lack of care, coupled with the fact that many married girls are not yet physically ready to give birth, presents risks for both mothers and babies,” read the report. The UNPA says while progress has been made in certain areas, ensuring universal access to sexual and reproductive health rights needs to be addressed in countries such as Zimbabwe. “This includes reducing maternal deaths as the figure of nine women dying daily while giving birth is too high. There is als a need to tackle teenage fertility. Approximately one in 10 adolescent girls aged 15 to 19 give birth every day and may die or suffer injuries as their bodies are not yet ready for child birth,” said UNFPA. – @thamamoe