The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter SOUTHERN Region Division One Soccer League side Casmyn have fired coach Ndoga Nyoni following a string of poor results. Nyoni, a seasoned First Division gaffer, became the second coach to be fired inside two weeks after Victoria Falls based Mosi Rovers relieved Zibonele Ncube who they replaced with Highlanders development trainer Gift Lunga (junior). Nyoni left Casmyn with five points from five games, having superintended over four matches, drawing two and losing twice before he was shown the exit. The fifth game was a 3-0 walkover against Moto Moto. Casmyn, ninth on the table and facing Binga Pirates today at their Turk Mine ground, announced Nyoni’s departure through a statement. “Casmyn FC wishes to announce the departure of Sylvester Ndoga Nyoni from the team with immediate effect. The club wishes to thank Coach Nyoni for his hard work and commitment. We wish him well in his future endeavours. “Isaac Tututu will take charge of the team on an interim basis and will lead the team in our Saturday fixture against Binga Pirates at Turk. He will be assisted by Charles Murusha and manager E. Makonese. The focus for Casmyn Football Club in the immediate is to get the team back to winning ways. “The club leadership has started the process of securing a new coach,” read the statement. Binga, second from the bottom with just a point after four games, are seeking their first win of the season and will be hoping to recover from last weekend’s 1-0 home defeat to Makomo. Former Premier Soccer League side Bulawayo City will be hoping to return to winning ways after being held to a 1-1 draw by Mainline in Plumtree last weekend. They face Moto Moto. City will bank on veteran central midfielder Thembani Masuku, who has been in scintillating form for the local authority bankrolled club, seasoned defenders Zephaniah Ngodzo and Zibusiso Sibanda among other players to power them to victory at Luveve Stadium this afternoon. Lunga makes a “homecoming” to face second on the table Bosso 90 at Crescent this afternoon with his bottom of the table Mosi Rovers who are seeking their first win of the season. It will be a tough game for Lunga as Bosso 90 are in good form and have a possibility of climbing to the top of the table. Bosso 90 are on 12 points after five games and trail leaders Talen Vision who are on a bye by a point. Third on the table CIWU entertain Mainline at Crescent with the hope of extending their unbeaten run to four games and keep up with the championship contenders. Southern Region Division One Soccer League fixtures Today: Bosso 90 v Mosi Rovers (Crescent, 3pm), Casmyn v Binga Pirates (Turk Mine, 3pm), Makomo v Ajax Hotspurs (Mpumalanga, 12pm), CIWU v Main Line (Crescent, 12pm), Talen Vision (BYE), Toronto v ZPC Hwange (Brad Barracks, 3pm), Bulawayo City v Moto Moto (Luveve, 12pm)