The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter MUSICIAN Mzoe7 says not being nominated for this year’s Bulawayo Arts Awards (BAA) has motivated him to work harder and also take notes from those who have been nominated. Last year, the Kwasa Kwasa hit-maker went all out with his music career as he travelled to different parts of the country promoting his Ulimenemene Gqom single. This made the track popular among many. Commenting on the BAAs, Mzoe7, who was nominated alongside Sandra Ndebele in 2017 for their Ingoma hit, said: “Not being nominated for this year’s edition has motivated me to work harder. I’ll continue pushing my music and being inspired by those who’ve been nominated. “2018 was a good year for me as I headlined most of the big shows in the city, released two music videos and featured in three films.” Mzoe7 however, commended organisers of the BAAs for their consistency in the holding of the event saying it was promoting the Bulawayo arts industry. “The BAAs aren’t a competition, but an award ceremony to honour those who’ll have excelled. This event is great in that it’s making our arts industry better,” he said. For now, Mzoe7 is working on a single with Ramsey K and hopes to pursue his acting career. He is also recording music videos which he said make fans familiarise with him more. “Visuals are very important in the music business so I want to channel my energy on that because it makes it easier for people anywhere to familiarise themselves with me. “I’m also working on a new single with Ramsey K and Murphy Cubic which is almost done and will be released soon. I’ve also been casted for a new movie titled $400 as well as the Umatshelela TV series.” Other than acting, Mzoe7, who was in Victoria Falls recently, is touring around the country promoting his music with Kwekwe being his next stop. The versatile artiste, who is also a dancer, said he had teamed up with Antivirus dance group to empower youths. “I’m working together with Antivirus dance group and other stakeholders to introduce dancing lessons to youths. We want to empower them to be able to live off dancing and also do it as a hobby just to try and keep them away from taking drugs and engaging in other bad activities.”