The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE late national hero Cde Velaphi Misheck Ncube played a critical role in the attainment of the country’s independence and the successful implementation of the Unity Accord, war veterans said yesterday. The late Zanu-PF National Consultative Assembly (NCA) member died last week at the age of 82 after a battle with diabetes. War veterans yesterday said Cde Ncube’s works speak volumes about his dedication to the country hence he deserved to be accorded the highest honour afforded to former freedom fighters. Zanu-PF Politburo member and war veteran Retired Colonel Tshinga Dube said Cde Ncube was one of the first pioneers of the war of independence. “I know him very well. In the early 1960s, he was one of the few brave young men who went to war after realising that it was the only way to win the country from the colonisers. “He was part of the group that went to Egypt to study, with special focus on sabotage, while others went to China, Algeria and Ghana. After finishing their studies, they went to Zambia but there were no weapons,” said Rtd Col Dube. He said Cde Ncube was also one of the people who went to Congo to buy weapons, loaded them into trains and smuggled them into the country. “I joined the war in 1963 and Velaphi was already there. He was jailed for many years after being sold out and was released after independence and went into the party structures. “Because he loved peace, he played a big role in the implementation of the Unity Accord,” said Rtd Col Dube. Another former freedom fighter, Cde Christopher Sibanda, said the late national hero was a hard working, straight forward man who loved peace. “Velaphi was a man of action who never wasted time as far as his work as a politician was concerned. I started knowing him in 1963 when he was spearheading the mobilisation programme to educate people about the liberation struggle. “He worked day and night and managed to smuggle weapons into the country despite the dangers. He put his life at risk as he worked tirelessly for the country until he was sold out leading to his arrest. He was released when the country attained independence,” he said. After independence, Cde Sibanda added, Cde Ncube played a pivotal role in the party structures and rallied behind the late Vice President Dr Joshua Nkomo in promoting unity among the people of Zimbabwe. “Velaphi was one of the comrades who quickly embraced the Unity Accord and went out to the people to explain its significance. He managed to mobilise many people and he played a big role in the formation of structures after the merging of Zapu and Zanu. “There were a lot of disagreements as the two parties tried to form the structures but comrades like Velaphi were always there to encourage people to be peaceful in the party,” said Cde Sibanda. War veterans chairman for Bulawayo province Cde Cephas Ncube said he worked with the late Cde Ncube after independence in 1980. “He was one of the party leaders who worked tirelessly for the revolution to make sure that the country attained independence. He also played a critical role during the implementation of the Unity Accord in 1987. “After this he continued to work for the party as a member of the district committee, provincial executive, Central Committee and the NCA,” said Cde Ncube. Another war veteran Cde Zephaniah Nkomo said he worked with the late national hero in 1980 when he was an officer linked with the then Brady Barracks military camp. “Velaphi was an honest man who always emphasised the importance of safeguarding the country’s interests. “He was very passionate about the liberation of the people of Zimbabwe hence his involvement in the liberation struggle and the ruling Zanu-PF party,” said Cde Nkomo. Cde Ncube’s burial has been set for tomorrow at the National Heroes’ Acre in Harare. A funeral service will be held at 9AM in Bulawayo today before his body is flown to Harare for burial. The national hero leaves behind his wife Margaret, nine children, 16 grandchildren and two great grand children. Mourners are gathered at 70590 Lobengula West in Bulawayo. — @pamelashumba1