The Chronicle Locadia Mavhudzi, Midlands Correspondent GOVERNMENT says it is crafting responsive legislative provisions aimed at reducing injuries and fatalities at the workplace in line with the ideals of the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP). The intervention comes on the back of reports that Zimbabwe has experienced 1 135 workplace injuries in the first three months of this year and nine workplace deaths have been recorded. In a speech read on his behalf by one of his directors, Mr Cleto Diwa at the commemorations of World Day for Safety and Health at Work in Kwekwe on Friday, Midlands Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Larry Mavima said companies should ensure occupational health and safety for all workers. “The Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare is crafting responsive legislative provision that will ensure the reduction of injuries and fatalities at the workplace as stipulated in the Transitional Stabilisation Programme,” he said. He said on its part, the National Social Security Authority (NSSA) was spearheading a campaign to accelerate effective occupational safety dubbed ‘Vision Zero’. “Through this, all employers are compelled to comply with safe labour standards and be visible in guaranteeing employee safety.” The TSP is a short term Government blue-print (2018-2020) that has a mandate to stabilise economic fundamentals before its long term successor policy guidelines take shape. Minister Mavima said Government was in the process of harmonising the occupational safety health Act so as to strengthen the informal economy as it is usually the worst affected by occupational hazards. “The informal economy is believed to be the worst affected by workplace accidents, which usually go unreported. Government is accelerating the harmonisation of the occupational safety and health Act and promoting public private partnerships in that regard,” he said. Meanwhile, Zimbabwe Federation of Trade Unions (ZFTU) representative for Midlands Province Mr Clopas Muzungwana bemoaned the lack of respect for labour laws and poor state of roads which he said was contributing to workplace accidents. “The poor state of our road network is contributing to accidents while some employers prioritise profiteering at the expense of human capital. “Health and safety regulations only exist on paper and not in practice. It is disheartening to note that some employers are still engaging in child labour,” he said. Mr Muzungwana also paid tribute to workers who lost their lives during Cyclone Idai in Chimanimani.