The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter MATABELELAND North Provincial Affairs Minister Richard Moyo has invited Chinese businesses to consider investing in his province as it is endowed with many opportunities. Mat North is considered a laggard in terms of development despite being rich in natural resources that include coal, methane gas, gold, timber and attractive tourist destinations like Hwange National Park and Victoria Falls. Hopes are high that the devolution concept will be a springboard for the province’s economic growth. Welcoming a delegation of 343 Chinese tourists who included business executives at a dinner in Victoria Falls, Minister Moyo said the province desperately needs investors. “This visit is a follow up to a visit by President Mnangagwa to the People’s Republic of China in 2018 where a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry and Touchroad Holdings International of China,” he said. “This is in line with the President’s vision of seeking strategic partners. In line with the mantra ‘Zimbabwe is Open for Business’ allow me to invite the Chinese delegates to explore and exploit the business opportunities available in my province and to consider making Matabeleland North province your business destination of choice.” Minister Moyo said a majority of workers in Matabeleland North are employed in the tourism sector, which highlights the importance of tourism to the local people and Zimbabwe as a whole. During President Mnangagwa’s state visit to China, the Asian country’s international organisation, Touchroad International agreed through a MoU to send a series of groups of Chinese tourists to Zimbabwe over a period of five years. Minister Moyo said Matabeleland North offers world class hospitality through the Victoria Falls. “For that reason we are extremely proud as we anticipate the reality of this beautiful resort transforming into a leading tourist and gaming attraction and financial hub. I, therefore, invite you once again to invest in this province so you partner us as we develop,” said the minister. The province has one of the designated Special Economic Zones, which covers Victoria Falls, Hwange and Binga and other areas along the Zambezi River. Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira, Victoria Falls Mayor Councillor Somvelo Dlamini and Zimbabwe Tourism Authority officials attended the event.—@ncubeleon