The Chronicle Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent MEMBERS of the public should be wary of counterfeit products that continue to flood the informal market and could expose consumers to risks, the Consumer Council of Zimbabwe (CCZ) has warned. In an interview on the sidelines of a recent pensions and insurance workshop in Kwekwe, CCZ deputy executive director, Mrs Rose Mpofu, said the consumer watchdog was inundated with reports of counterfeit products that have taken the local market by storm. She said the goods ranging from food items to toiletries have been manufactured locally while some were imported. “It is true that sometimes consumers are faced with counterfeit products. We have received reports of goods ranging from medicines, drinks, food items, candles and soap. “We therefore, encourage consumers to buy from reputable sources or shops that can easily be traced and held accountable in case of any report or suspicion,” said Mrs Mpofu. She said her office recently facilitated the busting of a drink and deodorant manufacturing company in Harare but could not name it. “We were alerted about the fake roll-on and drinks that were produced by this company and we managed to get it stopped. We however, still suspect that there are some unscrupulous suppliers who continue selling counterfeit products and we warn the consumers against purchasing products from the black market,” said Mrs Mpofu. She said the prevailing economic challenges have exposed consumers to unscrupulous cheats on the black market. “The current economic situation has left consumers exposed. The consumer has now been forced to ignore the proper chain of distribution opting to go for the black market. “Consumer rights to safety have been trampled upon as they flock to the black market seeking for cheaper goods. “Cheaper goods can only be found on the black market but the risk of being swindled is very high,” said Mrs Mpofu. The call by the CCZ comes amid increasing reports of fake products that have flooded the market. Recently, aphrodisiac drinks have reportedly found their way into the country from sources like South Africa and have been sold as drinks that families purchase for consumption. The medical fraternity has not been spared either as fake drugs have flooded the market as the prices of drugs continue to soar out of the reach of many.