The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter POLICE Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga yesterday said police officers should be professional and non-partisan as the organisation moves towards rebranding its image. Comm-Gen Matanga made the remarks in a speech read on his behalf by the Deputy Commissioner General (Human Resources) Elliot Mind Ngirandi during the opening of the rebranding and refresher training courses for 64 senior police officers from Midlands and Masvingo provinces at the police’s Ntabazinduna Depot in Matabeleland North. He said professionalism and honesty in the interests of national cohesion and protection of citizens helps the police rebrand their image that has been tarnished in recent years. “Without doubt, the image of the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) has been tainted in the recent past while the organisation has been viewed by the general public with a lot of disdain. In  this regard the organisation has seen it fit to rebrand in order to improve its image and public perception. “Rebranding demands all of us to be professional, non-partisan, sober-minded, remain highly dedicated, accountable, learn under public scrutiny and selflessly serve the nation,” he said. The police boss said the ZRP is in the process of rebranding into a modern force that fits within the country’s developmental goals of transforming the country into an upper middle income economy by 2030. He said cops should listen to concerns from members of the public to improve policing. Comm Gen Matanga said police professionalism should make Zimbabwe a safe investment destination. He said the force, just like most modern police organisations, derives its legitimacy from the people, and hence it is committed to continuously learn under public scrutiny. Comm-Gen Matanga said police officers play a critical role in contributing towards the creation and sustenance of an environment that is conducive for socio- economic growth. “Professional policing will no doubt enable Zimbabwe to be the preferred destination for investment and tourism. The organisation shall therefore continue to strengthen efforts to sustain a crime-free society which is a cornerstone for a prosperous nation.  Police should use feedback from clients as a benchmark for restructuring our processes in an endeavour to continuously improve police service,” he said. Comm-Gen Matanga said the graduands covered courses that included crime management, management of discipline, corruption, customer care, briefing and debriefing, public order management, cyber-crime and intellectual crime, community policing, retirement planning and integrated results based management. — @tamary98