The Chronicle President Mnangagwa has expressed disquiet at the slow movement in the battle against corruption following the arrest of several high profile figures accused of corruption. Several former cabinet ministers and business executives were arrested on allegations of corruption but many of the cases have collapsed at the courts. President Mnangagwa while applauding the establishment of specialised anti-corruption courts, expressed displeasure at the slow pace in concluding corruption cases. “I am disappointed that corruption cases are not moving.  While we may be experiencing teething challenges, I implore all those who play a role in this mammoth task to remain steadfast, honest and upright in the execution of their duties,” he said. The President said the success in fighting graft impacted on the country’s quest to establish a corrupt free society, accelerates development and speedily improves the quality of life. President Mnangagwa made the remarks while addressing judges, lawyers, magistrates among other guests at the commissioning of the new Labour Court in Harare recently. Last year the Judicial Service Commission embarked on a programme to set up anti-corruption courts in all the country’s 10 provinces to expeditiously deal with graft. The setting up of the specialised courts was meant to complement Government efforts to eliminate corruption by expeditiously dealing with corruption cases brought before the courts. The reasoning behind the establishment of these specialised courts was that once they started operating, the JSC was going to dispose of corruption cases quickly and efficiently. The JSC has been commended for taking such a giant stride in fighting graft but what is now worrying is the delays in concluding corruption cases and the many cases that are collapsing at the various stages of prosecution. It was hoped that the establishment of the specialised courts was going to enable the JSC to clear the backlog of corruption cases and drastically reduce the waiting period of those awaiting trial for graft but unfortunately this is not the case as many corruption cases continue to pile up and those before the courts are dragging on for long periods hence President Mnangagwa’s concern. The snail pace at which prosecution of corruption cases is progressing is very frustrating and JSC should urgently address this problem because they say justice delayed is justice denied.  Government has in the past blamed the collapse of corruption cases to poor investigations. It said those involved in investigating corruption cases should be thorough and follow due process to enable the wheels of justice to move faster. Government has noted that some corruption cases have collapsed spectacularly because investigators rushed to court without doing a thorough  job. It is a fact that securing convictions and passing sentences will send a very clear message to would be offenders that corruption is not tolerated. We want at this juncture to implore investigators to take seriously concerns raised by Government regarding the process of investigations and arrests. It is not proper to arrest to investigate but it should be investigations first and then arrests.