The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter A TOTAL of 89 individuals have registered to revive or set up new small community bakeries as part of efforts to break the monopoly of big companies in the bread industry, a Cabinet Minister said yesterday. Government recently said it will assist those willing to start small bakeries that used to operate in various communities in line with President Mnangagwa’s vision of addressing price distortions in the market. The monopoly by the three players, Lobels, Proton and Bakers Inn has seen them increasing prices willy-nilly and small bakeries are seen as vital to stabilise prices. In an interview yesterday, Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Minister Dr Sithembiso Nyoni said Government has received positive responses from individuals aspiring to be players in the bread industry. “So far 89 people have registered for the programme and we think there will be more. This is a free market and as many people should come forward. Everybody is free to participate. I know every town used to have a bakery but now you will see that a Nkayi resident will wait for bread to come from Bulawayo. The same goes for someone in Tsholotsho, waiting for bread to come from Bulawayo,” she said. Dr Nyoni said communities should learn to appreciate locally produced products as they contribute to economic growth. She said the appetite for foreign products was stifling economic growth. “As consumers let’s learn to appreciate our own things, let’s eat what we produce instead of always preferring imports and other products brought by other people,” the Minister said. Dr Nyoni said Government was not limiting its support to small scale bakeries but any sector that produces products locally for the benefit of the nation. “They (small scale producers) should come forward and say we are producing this and we want to be supported to increase production. Some of our local people, once they get assisted they become stingy with information instead of sharing it with others for the benefit of the whole society. “What others only do is to come out and complain instead of complementing what would have been done by others,” she said. Dr Nyoni said her Ministry is accepting proposals from various sectors and will support their projects where possible. “However, we are not going to support those who go outside the country to import products because they will be externalising much needed foreign currency. But I know of local companies involved in production of cooking oil, candles, soap; they are making those basic commodities that our nation needs. As a Ministry of SMEs we are really waiting for them to come out, let them be part of the process, even if they call for a meeting, I’m very flexible, I can attend.” — @nqotshili