The Chronicle Lisa Mangena, Court Reporter A 35-YEAR-OLD man from Bulawayo who used juveniles ranging from 12 to 16 years old to break into houses and steal property, has been sentenced to 12 years in prison. Nkosilathi Sibanda, who resides in Mzilikazi suburb, was charged with theft of electrical gadgets worth about US$2 000 and R1 500 in Cowdray Park suburb. He had a bunch of keys that he gave to the minors to open locked doors and would share proceeds from sales of the loot with the children. Sibanda appeared before Western Commonage magistrate Mr Urgent Vundla facing six counts of unlawful entry. He was convicted despite his not guilty plea. Mr Vundla sentenced Sibanda to 12 years in prison and suspended one year on condition of good behaviour. Prosecuting, Mr Steward Madzore said between February 10 and 17, Sibanda would send the minors with a bunch of keys to Cowdray Park suburb. “On February 10 at around 8AM, the minors went to Mr Adriana Ncube’s house while he was at church and stole two cell phones, a laptop and US$500. “A few days later they went to another house using the same strategy. They got into Mr Blessed Khumalo’s house at around 8AM while he had gone to buy a newspaper. The minors stole two mobile phones, two pairs of shoes and a pair of slippers,” he said. Mr Madzore said on February 16, the minors got into Mr Febby Ncube’s house. Mr Ncube had left his house at around 6AM for a school visiting day. When he got back he noticed that his documents were scattered all over the house. A tablet, blackberry phone, a pair of kids’ suit and eight bottles of deodorants were missing. The following day, the minors were caught trying to get into Mr Adrian Ncube’s house again. Mr Ncube had left his house going to church and told a Sunday school teacher to watch his house. A few minutes later, he was told that there were some kids who were unlocking his house and he rushed back home, the court heard. Mr Ncube took the minors to a police station. During investigation, the minors exposed Sibanda and also led the police to the recovery of some of the property they had stolen and sold. Property that was stolen was worth US$2 523 and R1 500. Property worth US$845 and R 1100 was recovered. — @LissahMangena.