The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter GIFT Lunga Jr comes face to face with his former paymasters when he leads his Mosi Rovers side into a collision course with Bosso 90 in a Zifa Southern Region Division One League encounter set for Crescent Grounds this Saturday. Thebe, as the former left winger cum defender is also affectionately known, left his Highlanders job last week where he was the Under 18 head coach to take up the same role at the Victoria Falls based side. “This fixture came rather too early for my liking, I honestly wasn’t expecting to face my former paymasters so early but be that as it may, life has to go on and on it shall go. I just have to prepare the boys as we peel away from the relegation zone,” said Lunga Jr. He conceded that it would not be an easy fixture considering that Bosso 90, under Melusi Mabaleka Sibanda, a team that he was also an assistant, know fully well how he thinks, while he too is aware of the possible backlash. “The tricky part about playing against a team that you were with is that you might think you know how they play and try to come up with counter measures to their style of play only for them to literally ‘change the questions’ so I hope it going to be an exciting duel. I saw the boys (Mosi) play last week against Casymn and I must say I liked their spirit,” said Lunga. Bosso 90 are a point behind leaders Talen Vision who have 13 points but are inaction this week and a win for Sibanda’s charges will see them take control of the league for the first time this season. At Luveve Stadium, a goals galore is expected when title favourites Bulawayo City, stunned by Mainline last weekend who forced a one all stalemate, play host to army outfit Moto Moto. There is a double header at Mzilikazi Barracks that will see Indlovu Iyanyathela getting the ball rolling against Arenel at midday before Toronto takes on ZPC (Hwange). Meanwhile, the Southern Region board has requested a meeting with the Zifa Southern Region referees committee headed by John Mutero after a number of clubs raised complaints over the behaviour of some referees who have openly been threatening teams while others have been pestering clubs through incessant phone calls over referees’ fees top ups. Week Six fixtures: CIWU v Mainline, (Crescent ) -Bosso 90 vs Mosi, (Crescent) -Casmyn v Binga Pirates (Turk Mine) -Makomo v Ajax Hotspurs (Mpumalanga) -Byo City v Moto Moto (Luveve) -Indlovu Iyanyathela v Arenel (Mzilikazi Barracks, 12pm) -Toronto v ZPC Hwange (Mzilikazi Barracks 3pm) Talen Vision on Bye. All games on Saturday