The Chronicle Sudan’s military rulers and protest leaders have resumed talks to finalise a new governing body that would replace the generals who took power after ousting longtime ruler Omar al-Bashir on the back of a popular uprising. The resumption of talks on Sunday comes following pressure from world powers to reach an agreement over an interim government that would be civilian-led – a key demand of demonstrators. “The talks between the Transitional Military Council (TMC) and the Alliance for Freedom and Change have started,” a statement by the military council said, in reference to the protest movement. Earlier in the day, the alliance said it was determined that the country’s new ruling body be “led by a civilian as its chairman and with a limited military representation”. The two sides have been divided over the composition of the transitional authority. Both want a majority of seats on the 11-member sovereign council, which would operate as the top tier of power during the planned transition period. They had been expected to meet for negotiations over the issue earlier in the week, but the TMC suspended talks with the alliance for 72 hours early on Thursday. It cited a deteriorating security situation in the capital Khartoum where demonstrators had erected roadblocks on several key avenues. Before talks were suspended, the two sides had agreed on several key issues, including a three-year transition period and the creation of a 300-member parliament, with two-thirds of legislators to come from the protesters’ umbrella group. Protesters placed roadblocks on some avenues in Khartoum, paralysing large parts of the capital to put further pressure on the generals during negotiations, but the military rulers suspended the last round of talks and demanded the barriers be removed. Demonstrators took the roadblocks down in recent days, but warned they will put them back up, if the army fails to cede power to a civilian administration. The generals have allowed protesters to maintain their sit-in outside Khartoum’s army headquarters. The deputy head of the military council, General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, better known as Hemeti, said late on Saturday that security forces had arrested those behind an attack on the protesters last week that killed at least five people, including an army officer. Both the military and the protesters had blamed the attack on al-Bashir loyalists. “The assailants who opened fire (on protesters) have been caught. Their confessions will be broadcast on TV,” said Dagalo, who heads the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces. – AFP