The Chronicle Nduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor CHIEF Nhlanhlayamangwe Ndiweni of Ntabazinduna has been accused of abusing his position to further the agenda of the opposition MDC Alliance with the ruling Zanu-PF party challenging him to step down from the chieftaincy and join mainstream politics. Apparently angered by the Government’s decision to resettle an indigenous farmer at a property in Ntabazinduna previously occupied by a white family, Chief Ndiweni last week addressed a Press conference in Bulawayo and called for tougher sanctions against Zimbabwe. Chief Ndiweni sensationally appealed to the international community to escalate sanctions on President Mnangagwa’s Government, claiming it has failed to pursue democracy. It is understood that before addressing the Press Club, Chief Ndiweni wrote to a number of foreign embassies calling for further sanctions to be imposed on Zimbabwe. He has also set up a parallel organisation to the Chiefs Council under the banner of College of Amakhosi where he is reportedly seeking to rope in some traditional leaders from Matabeleland and the Midlands provinces. After the 2018 elections, Chief Ndiweni visited MDC Alliance president Mr Nelson Chamisa to “endorse” the opposition leader despite his defeat in the polls at the hands of President Mnangagwa. Besides his links with the MDC, Chief Ndiweni has had liaisons with secessionist movement Mthwakazi Republic. However, the relationship between the two is said to have suffered a temporary knock after Chief Ndiweni and some colleagues visited Mr Chamisa to update him on the “installation” of a Ndebele King who is domiciled in South Africa. Zanu-PF Matabeleland North provincial person Cde Richard Moyo said they are aware of all Chief Ndiweni’s shenanigans. “He must just join politics and leave the chieftaincy. He should come into mainstream politics by joining these political parties that he is aligned to or even form his own and we will show him how winning politics is played, he has no chance against Zanu-PF,” he said. “In pursuit of a political agenda, he has chosen to advocate for the suffering of the people instead of working towards their development and unity. We know that initially he was running with secessionist movements like Mthwakazi and later we heard he was endorsing Chamisa despite his loss in the 2018 elections.” Cde Moyo called on traditional leaders to ignore Chief Ndiweni and continue working for the people. “He has shown his true colours and his destructive politics and I don’t think any self respecting traditional leader who has their people at heart can follow such kind of behaviour. They should just ignore his attempts to divide the chiefs in the country,” he said. In a statement on Sunday, the Permanent Secretary for Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services, Mr Nick Mangwana, said Chief Ndiweni’s utterances were inhumane and against our cultural beliefs. ‘‘Chief Ndiweni sentiments are deplorable, parochial and ignorant coming from a traditional leader,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s tragic that one of those constitutionally expected to uphold our customary values and community cohesion has chosen to not only be a controversial political player but to repeat a shameful familial history by calling for suffering to be visited upon the people of Zimbabwe.’’