The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter GOVERNMENT has set aside about RTGS$4 million for the refurbishment of the Binga airstrip to improve accessibility to the district and facilitate smooth tourism business. Despite lacking infrastructure, Binga is one of the rich districts in terms of natural resources with potential to attract thousands of tourists. These include fishing activities, a beach, hot springs, cruise and boating, wildlife and others. There are also other commercial activities such as crocodile farming. The distance from other towns and poor road network makes it difficult for tourists to visit the area. Government has since taken the initiative to make Binga attractive through a number of projects aimed at making the district a competitive part of the Victoria Falls Special Economic Zone. During a recent visit to Bulawayo Kraal Irrigation project in Binga, Deputy Chief Secretary to the Office of the President and Cabinet Mr Justin Mupamhanga said Binga was a unique area hence Government plans to develop it into a well structured town. Government has since ordered the District Development Fund (DDF) to maintain the airstrip at a cost of more than RTGS$4 million and work is already in progress. In an interview, DDF acting director for roads, Engineer Goodwell Mapako, said the airstrip was now ready to accommodate small planes. “As DDF we came to this Binga airstrip, which had lots of cracks and was bumpy. We have put a seal on the 1,2 km strip and parking area and we plan to put an asphalt overlay so we improve the landing surface. But for now it is now open for landing for smaller planes,” he said. Eng Mapako said besides the Binga airstrip, plans were underway to upgrade Bumi Hills, Kanyemba, and Chapoto airstrips. “We are also going to develop them and our plan is to make sure that all outlying areas can use air transport. We want Binga to be accessible either by road or air hence this is a very important facility for those who don’t want to drive to Binga as they can fly straight here,” added Eng Mapako. He said the airstrip gives access to water and game activities as well as for commercial purposes especially for crocodile farmers who would want to link with the region for export. —@ncubeleon