The Chronicle Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter THE Zanu-PF Youth League has urged all ministers to periodically update the nation on the progress they have made on economic and transformation issues. Zanu-PF Secretary for Youth Affairs Cde Pupurai Togarepi challenged Government officials to use various media platforms to communicate with people in line with the nation’s economic mantra championed by President Mnangagwa’s ‘Zimbabwe is open for Business’. “We would like to call on ministers and other stakeholders in key sectors of the economy, be it service delivery or economic players to open up and apprise the nation on the progress they have made, if any, and the challenges they face in executing their roles,” said Cde Togarepi in his weekly column that he posts on Facebook. “We challenge ministers to open up, just as “Zimbabwe is Open for Business” by periodically informing the nation through various forms of the media what they will be doing, their failures and successes.” He called for accountability in all Government departments. Cde Togarepi said some ministries remain closed to public scrutiny and engagement even when the President himself is accessible. “Our people deserve better from all public and private institutions as both are designed to serve the people of Zimbabwe not the other way round. Some pronounce policies that are inconsistent with the President’s thrust to turn around the economy while others have become saboteurs to the President’s vision. That must stop now,” he said. “The time to confront those working against the President’s vision is now. We want answers now otherwise these purveyors of doom will destroy the hope created by the New Dispensation.” Cde Togarepi said Parliament should also promulgate laws that will protect the public from economic saboteurs. “Parliament should also play its part and enact laws that protect the general public from economic saboteurs. We do not expect double standards from parliamentarians and any corrupt legislator has no role in the August House, but rather a place in Chikurubi,” he said. — -@esinathy_essira