The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga yesterday said the force has started implementing recommendations made by the commission of inquiry that was chaired by former South Africa President Kgalema Motlanthe. President Mnangagwa appointed the seven member Motlanthe Commission of Inquiry last year to look into post-election violence that broke out in Harare resulting in the death of six people. The commission submitted its report containing recommendations to the President late last year. In a speech during the opening of the rebranding and refresher courses for 55 senior police officers from Bulawayo province at the police’s Ntabazinduna Depot in Matabeleland North, Comm-Gen Matanga said they are now implementing the commission’s recommendations on the conduct of the police.  He said violent scenes that were witnessed in August last year and January this year exposed some police shortcomings. He said criticism and feedback from the public will propel ZRP into offering a world class service. Comm-Gen  Matanga said the force, just like most modern police organisations derives its legitimacy from the people, hence it is committed to continuously learn under public scrutiny. “We should always be able to use the feedback from the public as a yardstick for reforming and reengineering our processes to improve our services. In the same breath, some operational shortcomings have been laid bare by the recent events especially the violent incidents that engulfed the nation in August 2018 and January 2019 respectively. It is in this regard that Government has seen it prudent that ZRP begins in earnest to implement recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into the post-election violence which was chaired by the former South African President His Excellency Kgalema Motlanthe,” said Comm Gen Matanga. He said the Commission’s recommendations include equipping the police with the necessary skills and capacity for dealing with rioters, further training in order to be professional and nonpartisan in the interest of national cohesion, the protection of all citizens as well as preventing corporal failings in the future. “We are obligated to take heed of matters that are of concern to the public. Indeed our code of conduct, the Police Client Service Charter and all our policies underscore the importance of professionalism in all police endeavours,” he said. Comm Gen Matanga said ongoing refresher courses will transform the force into a people oriented force. He said the courses cover crime management, management of discipline, corruption, customer care, briefing and debriefing, public order management, cyber-crime and intellectual crime, community policing, retirement planning, integrated results based management and the Transitional Stabilisation Programme, among others. The police boss said the ZRP is in the process of rebranding into a modern police force that fits within the country’s developmental goals of transforming the country into an upper middle income economy by 2030. He said cops should listen to concerns from members of the public to improve policing. Comm Gen Matanga said police professionalism should make Zimbabwe a safe investment destination. “I want to point out that the ZRP is cognisant that professional, transparency, integrity, upholding the rule of law and human rights are key tenets of democratic police organisation and for building a good brand. Professional policing will no doubt enable Zimbabwe to be the preferred destination for investment and tourism. The organisation shall therefore continue to strengthen efforts to sustain a crime-free society which is a cornerstone for a prosperous nation,” said Comm Gen Matanga. He said police have partnered with other security organs to avail idle training space for its members. Senior police officers including Officer Commanding Bulawayo Province Commissioner Bernard Dumbura, Principal Staff College Commissioner Charity Charamba and national police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi among others attended the event. —@nqotshili