The Chronicle Sukoluhle Ndlovu, Midlands Correspondent The Ambassador of Caribbean Islands of Antigua & Barbuda to Nigeria, Brigadier General Dr Wallace Williams has expressed confidence in the leadership of President Mnangagwa saying Zimbabwe has made significant progress since he tookover in November 2017. In an interview on the sidelines of Pan African Business Summit held in Gweru on Saturday, Dr Williams said the new dispensation has increased investor confidence. “I am very happy to be in Zimbabwe and am excited to note that the country has made significant progress since President Mnangagwa came into power. He has been saying that Zimbabwe is open for business and indeed it is open for business considering the reforms that are taking place under the new dispensation and l can guarantee you that the impact will be felt in the shortest possible time,” said Dr Williams. Dr Williams said now the country should come up with right policies and develop human capital for it to move forward. “Turning around the economy cannot be achieved in a short space of time but the Government is moving in the right direction.” Dr Williams said what is encouraging is that investors now have confidence in the Zimbabwean economy. “What l know now is that there is investor confidence because investment opportunities have been clearly identified. What is left is to translate the investors’ commitments into deliverables,” he said. The summit, which was organised by River Valley Holdings, was attended by captains of industry, politicians and business people. Foreign delegates who attended the summit include the Executive Director of Pan African Leadership Development Centre Dr Babalola Omoniyi, Director of Administration and Planning Dr Ayanlola Ayanyimika and Head of Media Zubair Rashid Olanrenwaju. Since he assumed the office, President Mnangagwa has made significant strides in opening up the economy to foreign direct investment, improved the ease of doing business and gave security of tenure to farmers.