The Chronicle Nduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor SOUTH Africans yesterday cast their votes in the country’s national election where the ruling African National Congress (ANC) is expected to romp to victory with the Zanu-PF observer team there describing the polls as peaceful. In a statement from South Africa, Zanu-PF secretary for Information and Publicity Cde Simon Khaya Moyo, who is part of an 11- member observer team dispatched by President Mnangagwa, said South African President Cyril Ramaphosa cast his vote in Soweto. “Today is a historic occasion in South Africa with more than 27 million registered voters expected to cast their votes at the 22 924 voting stations across the country. President Cyril Ramaphosa cast his vote in Soweto Johannesburg at 11am,” said Cde Khaya Moyo from Pretoria. “Indications are that there is generally peace and tranquility throughout the country except for some isolated incidents in Limpopo and North West provinces.” Cde Khaya Moyo said the observer mission divided itself into three groups to observe the polls mainly in Gauteng due to logistical challenges. He said Cde Patrick Chinamasa, who heads the mission in South Africa, led the first team in Soweto and other areas around Johannesburg. Cde Khaya Moyo leads a team in Pretoria including Mamelodi and Soshanguve areas while Cde Sithembiso Nyoni leads a team in the East Rand Ekurhuleni including Boksburg. Cde Khaya Moyo said voting started at 7am and was expected to end at 9pm last night. “Those still in queues at close of the polls will be permitted to cast their votes” said Cde Khaya Moyo. The South African polls come 25 years after South Africa attained its independence in 1994 when the late Nelson Mandela led the ANC to power in the country’s first multi racial vote that marked the end of apartheid. A record 48 political parties are contesting in this year’s polls and the most prominent challengers to the ANC are the Democratic Alliance (DA) led by Mr Mmusi Maimane and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) fronted by Mr Julius Malema, the ruling party’s former youth leader. The ANC goes to the polls under President Ramaphosa following the resignation of former President Jacob Zuma who resigned on the 9th year of his reign last year. Mr Zuma and fellow former President Thabo Mbeki took part in the ANC campaigns ahead of yesterday’s polls. According to poll surveys conducted in the country, the ANC is tipped to win the majority of the 400 seats being contested in the National Assembly.