The Chronicle Sports Reporter MORE corporates are sponsoring this year’s ZNA Executive Interaction Initiative (EII) Fun Shoot Matabeleland Chapter set for Saturday at Woolandale Range in Matopos. EII Matabeleland Chapter chairperson Trust Mabaya said 10 companies are sponsoring this year’s event and the drive is to get more companies to partner the army. The fun shoot gives civilians an opportunity to have a feel of AK47 guns in a social environment. “I am overwhelmed and humbled by the support we have received from the business community. United Refineries, PPC Zimbabwe, Rainbow Hotel, Afdis, Doves, Nyaradzo, Schweppes, First Mutual Life, Lay Mark and Stanbic Bank have partnered us this year. “Last year we donated proceeds of the event to Khayelihle Children’s Village and we are yet to identify the beneficiary for this year,” said Mabaya. He said following engagements with previous participants, they are streamlining the shoots by removing the PKM machine gun shooting event and retaining the AK47 events that include 200m, 100m and falling plates competition. “We have set the participation fee at $20 for the three shoots and we urge people to come out with their families and friends to network over shooting, braai and drinks. We will also have entertainment for the kids which include a jumping castle and music. “The main objective of the event is to raise funds for charities and also foster relations between the military and civilian population. You would notice that we rarely interact with the army and therefore this aims to demystify that and integrate both sides as we have much to learn from each other.” The EII is the brainchild of Zimbabwe Defence Forces commander General Philip Valerio Sibanda, who had a vision to bring together the military and business community to foster relations in a bid to have them working together to help selected charities. He created EII charity organisations consisting a chapter in every province to oversee fund raising activities for charitable causes in their respective provinces. Patron of the Matabeleland Chapter is 1 Infantry Brigade commander Brigadier-General Augustine Chipwere.