The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter THE Infrastructure Development Bank of Zimbabwe (IDBZ) is working on the rehabilitation and expansion of Bambanani Irrigation Scheme in Mangwe district, Matabeleland South province. The project is meant to revive cultivation of crops under irrigation at the 60-hectare irrigation scheme located in Sanzukwi Ward. The irrigation scheme has been lying idle for the past 14 years after the water pumping system broke down. The scheme’s supply dam is Ingwizi Dam which has a holding capacity of approximately 10 million cubic metres. In a statement, the IDBZ said a joint venture called the Masola Drummond will enter into a partnership with the irrigation scheme’s cooperative as well as Mangwe Rural District Council to establish a consortium that will operate a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for the rehabilitation of the irrigation scheme. “The contemplated special purpose vehicle will be granted access to 100 hectares under the original irrigation scheme and an additional 100 hectares on an abutting piece of land while another 250 hectares is reserved for future expansion to bring the total potential irrigable land to 450 hectares,” said the bank. It said the project will focus on growing maize, soya beans and vegetables for the local market as well as paprika, pecan nuts and bananas being exported. The IDBZ said there are long term plans to set up agro processing plants either on the scheme itself or at Sanzukwi Business Centre within the district. It said it is looking for consulting firms to conduct a study to determine the most optimal and viable irrigation scheme options for the irrigation scheme’s rehabilitation. “The IDBZ wishes to engage consulting firms to conduct a detailed feasibility study to determine the most optimal and viable irrigation scheme options for the Bambanani Irrigation Scheme rehabilitation. The project entails the rehabilitation and expansion of a defunct irrigation scheme in Mangwe district, Matabeleland South Province,” read the statement. The IDBZ said the consortium is targeting optimum utilisation of land under the intensive agriculture activity in the short term. – @tamary98