The Chronicle Pamela Shumba/Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporters ZANU-PF Bulawayo province’s restructuring programme is in full swing after President Mnangagwa dissolved provincial structures in March and a new executive is expected to be in place by the end of this week. Yesterday, the province’s City Centre District elected new leaders during elections that took place at the provincial headquarters, Davies Hall. Cde Caleb Sengu is the new district chairperson after Cde Nkosana Dube withdrew his candidature. The new deputy chairperson is Cde Raymond Mtomba who won against Cde Nkosilathi Dube. The Women’s League chairperson is Cde Marvelous Ali and is deputised by Cde Lydia Phiri. The Youth League chairperson is now Cde Mayibongwe Zvigadza and is deputised by Cde Emmanuel Sunduza, who were both uncontested. This district executive, together with 38 other party members per wing, stand a chance to contest in the upcoming provincial elections that are expected to be conducted by Sunday. The co-ordinator of the restructuring exercise in Bulawayo, Retired Colonel George Nare, who is also the party’s director in the commissariat, said the province will conclude its elections and restructuring exercise by Sunday. “The restructuring exercise started from the cells and branches. Now we’re restructuring the districts and we’re planning to wrap up the whole exercise by May 12, 2019. On Tuesday we’ll have a feedback meeting at Davies Hall as we prepare for the provincial elections where people will vote for their provincial executive,” said Rtd Col Nare. Yesterday’s elections were however, at some point disturbed by skirmishes, which resulted in the deployment of anti-riot police at Davies Hall. Rtd Col Nare said they managed to quell the skirmishes, which were caused by some members of the party who went on a drinking spree before the elections. “We had slight disorder after some members who came drunk for reasons known to themselves argued that some members were not qualified to contest because they had criminal records. “We ignored that because they were basing their argument on mere allegations with no court records. We managed to calm them down and decided to go ahead with the elections and everything is going on well,” said Rtd Col Nare. He said the election process went well and he was happy as most people from the district turned up for the elections. “This district has a lot of problems but we’re here to resolve them and make sure that the new leadership has the party and the people at heart. After the elections we’ll continue monitoring the new leadership to see if they’re working in line with their mandate to serve the party. “If we realise that they’re only concerned about lining their pockets we’ll definitely take action,” said Rtd Col Nare. He said the co-ordinating team was holding weekly meetings for feedback, adding that they were preparing a full report for the Politburo. Politburo member, Cde Mike Bimha, who is also the Zanu-PF secretary for indigenisation and economic empowerment, said the election process was democratic. “The elections are going on well and the process is democratic according to the party’s constitution but of course in any election people favour different candidates and this can result in arguments but everything is under control. “We’re already preparing for provincial elections this week and we’re certain everything will be in order,” said Cde Bimha. In March, Zanu-PF First Secretary and President Cde Mnangagwa dissolved all the party’s structures in Bulawayo and Harare. The party leadership said the dissolution of the party’s structures in Bulawayo and Harare would address problems that have resulted in the party perennially losing elections in the two metropolitan provinces. The party said Vice President Constantino Chiwenga is superintending over the party’s affairs in Harare while Vice President Kembo Mohadi has been assigned to oversee structures in Bulawayo. – @pamelashumba1 -@esinathy_