The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter SALARY negotiations between the Government and civil servants are on-going with another review expected next month as promised by the Government. In March, civil servants received a salary increase of RTGS$400 million as part of their cost of living adjustment, with the Government promising another review of salaries in June this year. Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Deputy Minister Lovemore Matuke yesterday said Government was aware of the plight of its employees. He emphasised the Government’s commitment to improving the living conditions of civil servants by supporting them with both monetary and non-monetary benefits. “We’re aware that the situation out there is not favourable for civil servants and it calls for an adjustment of their salaries. Dialogue between Government and civil servants through the Tripartite Negotiating Forum (TNF) is ongoing and I’m certain that by June the Government would have increased their salaries. “I don’t have the figures yet because negotiations are ongoing but I’m confident that the Government will take care of civil servants’ needs. The current Government never fails. If it makes a commitment it fulfils it,” said Deputy Minister Matuke. Under the RTGS$400 million pay deal, a civil servant who was earning RTGS$441 is now getting RTGS$570, while those who were earning RTGS$519 are now earning RTGS$649. The salary increases ranged from 13 percent to 25 percent according to grades. Initially, the civil servants were demanding a minimum salary of RTGS$1 700, arguing that the local currency had lost value, while prices of goods and services were going up on a weekly basis. Last month, Minister of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare, Dr Sekai Nzenza, said the Government was working on introducing non-monetary incentives for its employees such as housing, transport and medical insurance. Government has been putting in place measures to improve the welfare of its employees. Recently, civil servants got the green light to import vehicles duty-free as part of non-monetary incentives. The duty-free scheme is covered by Statutory Instrument 52 of 2019 and will see those with 10 years in service qualifying. In addition, a $60 million housing facility for civil servants was unveiled as part of the non-monetary incentives. – @pamelashumba1