The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter CRACKS have emerged within the Highlanders technical team, with allegations that one assistant coach is leading a faction of players revolting against head coach Madinda Ndlovu, Chronicle Sport has learnt. Technical changes are imminent at troubled Highlanders, with one of the assistant coaches set to be redeployed to the juniors following suspicions of sabotage. National Under-20 coach Bekithemba Ndlovu joined the club’s technical team at the beginning of the year to become the second assistant with Mandla Mpofu. Bosso are winless in seven Castle Lager Premiership games and pressure is mounting on the technical team to find a quick solution to the crisis. Sources confided to Chronicle Sport that the club is seized with evidence of plans to topple head coach Ndlovu by one of his assistants. The source said the executive made it clear to the technical team during their Monday meeting that in the event that Madinda is sacked, ‘‘they will all go” and new coaches appointed. “Acts of sabotage within the technical team have long been suspected but without evidence it was difficult to act. “The club is now in possession of evidence that suggests that the team’s poor showing is something that has been well orchestrated from within.  There are divisions among players that were instigated by a technical team member. People will be surprised when we release that evidence to the public and what is shocking is that it’s people from the system that are contributing to all this chaos,” said the source. “A meeting was held on Monday between the executive and the whole technical team before the club’s leadership separately met the coach (Madinda). “The decision now lies with the executive to deal with the matter because they have been furnished with the evidence. But what is clear is that one of the assistant coaches is going and could be demoted to coach the Under-18s.” The source added that the executive crushed the saboteurs’ plans at a meeting held on Monday, telling them that “if they thought they will remain coaching they’re fooling themselves as they will all go with Madinda”. Some Bosso supporters questioned the wisdom of “disturbing” last year’s technical team that managed to lead the team to a top-four finish. There are also indications that the club’s welfare manager Vezigama Dlodlo could be affected as he is accused of failing to deal with the players’ wayward behaviour. Dlodlo also stands accused of having a “sour” relationship with players, some of whom are said to have complained to club management. As the link between players and management, Dlodlo is accused of dereliction of duty for his failure to help avert the players’ strike during pre-season. There is also a belief that the players don’t respect him. Repeated efforts to get comment from the club spokesperson Ronald Moyo and chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube were fruitless as their mobile phones continuously rang unanswered. — @ZililoR