The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter WHAT was supposed to be a routine evidentiary participation by the Highlanders FC chairman, Kenneth Mhlophe, turned into a nightmare yesterday when the disciplinary committee presiding over the suspension of two executive committee members turned the heat on the Bosso supremo with a barrage of questions. The two executive committee members —vice chairman Modern Ngwenya and secretary general Israel Moyo — appeared before the disciplinary committee chaired by board secretary Matthew Sibindi charged with disobeying a recommendation of the human resources committee over the extension of club chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube’s contract which expired on April 30. The duo voted against extending it. Other members of the disciplinary committee were board members; Elkannah Dube, Dumisani Sandi, former board member Davis Sibanda and club lawyer, Matshobana Ncube. According to sources, the disciplinary committee demanded to know why and how the chairman participated in an illegal voting exercise if he knew that it was against the recommendation of the human resources committee. “So you were an accomplice to the crime then. If you knew it was wrong to even take the matter to vote why did you participate, besides what does the constitution say about sub-committees,” the disciplinary committee is said to have asked a bewildered chairman who allegedly responded that he intended to refuse to append his signature to the final minutes. Ngwenya and Moyo’s legal counsel then demanded to know from the board why his clients were persecuted in public when club president Ndumiso Gumede issued a statement which “literally accused my clients of committing a crime and causing the poor start to the season of the first team”, of which the board stunned the proceedings by disassociating itself from the Press statement, saying it was released without prior consent of everyone hence it could have been a personal opinion of the club president. The hearing lasted for more than three hours and judgment was reserved but it is expected to be handed down sometime next week. Meanwhile, the duo remains suspended.