The Chronicle The ruling Zanu-PF party’s national chairperson Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri has said Zimbabwe is under political and economic siege from its detractors that are bent on disrupting President Mnangagwa’s reforms. Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri who is leading a Zanu-PF delegation on a tour of China, said this during a meeting with the Minister of the International Department of the Communist Party of China, Mr Song Tao. She said Zimbabwe was under siege like other countries that have been targeted for destabilisation by the United States of America and its Western allies. “We are really under siege, after what has happened in Venezuela, what has happened in Libya, we remain cautious because we continue to be under serious bashing, even on social media,” she said. Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri said after the ruling party had won the elections resoundingly with a two thirds majority, the opposition remains adamant, challenging the decision of the people of Zimbabwe. She said the opposition was working very closely with 35 000 NGOs which are being funded fully by America, Britain and the EU. Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri said whatever efforts the new Government tried to put in place for economic recovery programmes, the NGOs were going behind Government’s back to fund communities, giving them US dollars to fight Government’s social and economic programmes. She said the objective was to make people feel that the NGOs had better solutions than Government. It is therefore imperative for Zimbabweans to be united in order to fight these forces bent on destabilising the nation. The nation should take heed of President Mnangagwa’s call to desist from practices and attitudes that divide the country. President Mnangagwa said Zimbabweans should resolutely oppose, shun and expose tribalism, regionalism, nepotism, corruption and all other divisive and retrogressive practices. “Let us preach and live in peace, love and harmony,” he said. The President who was addressing hundreds of mourners who thronged the National Heroes’ Acre to witness the burial of the late national hero Cde Misheck Ntundu Velaphi Ncube on Thursday, also called on the business people at every level to be ethical in their conduct. He said the rebuilding of the economy was everyone’s responsibility. Businesses have been wantonly increasing prices of basic communities thereby playing into the hands of the country’s detractors bent on destabilising the country.