The Chronicle Improper Solid waste management has become one of the major environmental challenges that the country is facing.The huge volumes of waste we generate give room for recycling; this also means that we save on the use of new resources for the manufacturing of products thus protecting the environment from further degradation. The Environmental Management Agency’s initiative regarding waste management and communities is to protect the environment at the same time providing livelihood options to communities under the theme “Converting trash to  cash.” What do we mean by Converting trash to cash? Trash to cash means deriving monetary benefits from waste. It aims to bring out business opportunities in waste management so that different stakeholders can play a part in waste management and possibly drive corporates into investing in the recycling industry so as to redress the waste management challenge the country is facing. Communities can form groups to harness the benefits of waste which vary from waste collection to recycling. How to make Money out of waste? In order to make money out of waste there are a few practices that you have to adopt so as to make the retrieval of the waste resource feasible. These involve the following: Waste separation at source: Separating waste into biodegradable and non-degradable waste ensures that waste is not contaminated. Contaminated waste depreciates in value and burdens the recycler as it needs cleaning before it is processed. You can even make the recovery of varieties of waste easier by setting up separate bins for different kinds of waste. Composting: Composting is nature’s process of recycling decomposed organic materials into a rich soil known as compost. Anything that was once living will decompose. Basically, backyard composting is an acceleration of the same process nature uses. By composting your organic waste you are returning nutrients back into the soil in order for the cycle of life to continue. Waste Cans: Aluminium is used to make 855 of the world’s 210 billion beverage cans produced every year. It is highly sustainable and easily recyclable. Zimbabwe does not have a can recycling company but there are several companies that are buying used cans, crushing them and exporting them to South Africa where a truckload or 30 tonnes of waste cans has a net profit of $6 500. They are recycled into new cans and made into die casts used by the automotive industry. The increased demand for fuel efficient, lightweight cans is expected to make aluminium more popular in automobile manufacturing. Some communities have started collecting cans for supplying to recycling companies and currently Delta is working with 15 partners/companies who buy waste can for export. Stakeholders can also collect cans and sell to these companies or establish their own waste can collection and exporting centre. Schools, churches, workplaces all can establish collection centres and get in touch with Delta on how they can go about it. Glass: Glass waste includes used beer bottles, glass jars such as jam jars and it should be separated according to their colours because glass retains its colour after recycling. One common item made from recycled materials is glassware, which can include cups, glasses, plates, bowls, and similar supplies. Home decorating supplies like candlesticks, artwork, lampshades, drawer pulls, glass doorknobs, and vases can also be made from recycled glass. Exporting a truckload (30 tonnes) of crushed glass to South Africa has a net profit of $1 200. Waste glass from beverages such as beer is crushed into pieces (culet) and loaded into tonner bags for export to South Africa. Paper waste: Paper and paper-board products are used every day, from newspapers to food packaging to office paper. In fact, paper and paper-board products make up 25 percent of municipal solid waste stream in Zimbabwe and as a result, offer the greatest opportunity to recycle. Paper waste includes the following: -Cardboard boxes – Newspaper – Magazines – Egg cartons – Food boxes What products can be made from recycled paper? Besides easily recognisable paper products (e.g., writing paper or paper towels), more than 5,000 products can be made from recycled paper, including: – Masking tape – Paper money – Dust masks – Hospital gowns – Coffee filters – Lamp shades – Car insulation – Animal bedding – Planting pots for seedlings – Egg cartons – Plastic Waste: Plastic can be converted into a wide range of products. Recycling creates income opportunities for waste pickers. In Zimbabwe, an increasing number of people are earning a living through waste collection. This also includes the following -HDPE: High Density Polyethylene-toiletry bottles, household cleaning bottles, plastic milk containers, cascade drink bottles. -LDPE: Low Density Polyethylene-plastic shopping bags, bread bags, bin liners, bread bags, sugar bags, plastic used to wrap can drinks, plastic used to wrap toilet rolls, plastic from dry cleaners. -PET: PolyTerephalate-soft drink and water bottles, some fruit and vegetable trays. -PP: Polypropylene-yoghurt containers, most drinking straws, snack packets, biscuits, chips, fertiliser bags and plastic drums – PS: PolyStyrene-kaylite, some food trays, CD cases and ball point pen barrels. -PVC: Most irrigation pipes -Report all Environmental Crimes to; eep@ema.co.zw, like us on Facebook: Environmental Management Agency and twitter: @EMAeep or visit our website www.ema.co.zw. Alternatively, call us on: Tel 04-305543 and Toll-free 08080028; or use our Whatsapp platform 0779565707. We are ready to listen.