The Chronicle Showbiz Correspondent MULTICHOICE Africa is inviting people from Zimbabwe with either industry experience or a relevant post-school qualification in filmmaking to apply for the Southern Africa Talent Factory Academy. Now in its second year, the MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) is a platform for filmmakers to improve their television and film production skills under the guidance and mentorship of industry experts. A total of 20 students are being sought for the academy that will take place in October in Lusaka, Zambia, headed by respected industry professional Berry Lwando. The deadline for applications is June 14 with would-be applicants expected to apply on the multichoice website. According to Liz Dziva, publicity and public relations manager of MultiChoice Zimbabwe, the Talent Factory students will study all aspects of production and work on practical assignments designed to hone their skills in the film field. “Year two will start in October once the first-years have graduated. This call is for all aspiring filmmakers to place their names for consideration for places in the academy. “Successful Zimbabweans will be placed in Lusaka where they will follow two current Zimbabwean students in the first year course,” Dziva said. She said as part of the programme, young filmmakers will also be provided with hands-on experience in the film industry. “The focus is on storytelling, production, audio and directing, as well as other key areas. The academy will also provide students with an opportunity to learn directly from well-known leading industry experts, work on live sets of local TV productions and create original content that will be aired on various M-Net channels across the MultiChoice platform.” The MTF academy, Dziva said, has exposed the Class of 2018 to real-life industry immersions. “The East Africa hub students, for instance, are working on productions such as music reality show Coke Studio, Pambio, Turn-Up and the popular Swahili soap Selina. In West Africa, the students cut their teeth on the thrilling series Battleground, The Johnsons, Tinsel and sitcom Flatmates while the Southern African class worked on the Date My Family Zambia reality show, the ZED Top 10 music show and drama series, Chintelelwe. “The students also had an opportunity to gain hands-on experience on SuperSport shows and pitch their final-semester film projects to MultiChoice channel executives,” she said.