The Chronicle Stanford Chiwanga THE Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce, Cde Raj Modi on Monday donated 37 tonnes of groceries and clothes to 1 500 survivors of Cyclone Idai in Chimanimani’s Kopa area which was hard hit by the cyclone. The groceries and clothes came from Pintail Trading, Liquor Hub, Mega Market, Champion Foods, Fortwell Wholesale, Varun Beverages, Pure Oil (Zim Gold), Ingwebu Breweries, Flynote (Evergold), Jasbro Foods, Quality Foods, Bulatake, United Refineries, Raha, Jaydeu & Vaghmana, Mr Dharmesh Bhikha, Mr Durgash Jani, Mr Haribhai Bhikha, Mr Manubhai Prajapati and Mr Parimal Patel. The consignment consisted of 2 000 X10kg bags of mealie meal, 1 500 X2kg packets of rice, 1 500X 2litre bottles of cooking oil, 1 500 bars of washing soap, 1 500 tablets of bath soap, 1 500 packets of salt, 1 500 packets of soya chunks, 1 500 packets of soya beans, 43 packets of mixed pasta, 4 800 bottles of fruit juice, 6 000 bottles of bottled water, 6 00 blankets, 300 tracksuits, 6 000 exercise books, 1 000 school bags, 1 000 pads for adolescent school girls, an assortment of detergents to Kopa Clinic and six Royal wick stoves for elderly women. Addressing more than 2 000 people at Dzingire Primary School, Cde Modi said he decided to rope in companies and individuals from Bulawayo who pooled resources together to assist victims of Cyclone Idai. He said Bulawayo residents and business people were moved by the destruction caused by the cyclone hence their generous donations. “It is easy to dismiss the misery and suffering of the people of Chimanimani if and when you have not visited the affected areas. I was here a few weeks ago and what I saw was touching and heartbreaking because people were left destitute after their homes were destroyed. “The survivors of the cyclone have no food, they have no water and they have no shelter. So today I am here representing the private sector and individuals from Bulawayo, who have said ‘we also want to complement Government and NGOs’ efforts to assist the affected people of Kopa,” he said. Dzingire Primary School lost 50 pupils and three members of staff to Cyclone Idai. Cde Modi said he donated school bags and books after learning that pupils in Kopa lost everything to the devastating cyclone. The Bulawayo South legislator assured those who did not benefit from the donations that he would return in two weeks time with more relief aid.