The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba/Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Reporters A VIDEO of songstress Novuyo Seagirl ranting at revellers who were booing her offstage at the ZITF Shutdown Bash at Queens Sports Grounds in Bulawayo last Saturday has sparked debate on social media. Seagirl, who performed after Jah Prayzah, had just done two songs when the crowd started singing the famous Bosso song “Int’oyenzayo siyay’zonda”. Some revellers also started pelting her with bottles. A disappointed AEIOU hit-maker ordered DJ Nospa to stop playing her music as she wanted to give the crowd a piece of her mind. “Bulawayo you’re hating on your own Bulawayo girl. You have no shame and no pride in your own. I know I may be nothing today, but I’ll be something tomorrow. “Thank you all those who support me, thank you ZITF Shutdown,” Seagirl told patrons. She concluded her rant saying “at least I’ve got money in my f%$n purse.” This outburst that was captured on video has sparked debate on social media with some saying she should not have burst out while others were supporting her. However, Seagirl’s encounter is not new as many of the city’s artistes are often booed off stage before they even start performing. Last year, missiles were thrown at Asaph at Nust when he was opening for Killer T. Blogger and arts commentator, Plot Mhako was not impressed with Seagirl’s rant and suggested that some artistes need public relations training. Austria-based Imbube musician Vusa Mkhaya also weighed in saying he was against Seagirl’s coarse language. “That language was uncalled for. Why not just leave the stage gracefully and make way for the next act?” German-based female rapper Awakhiwe was in full support of Novuyo Seagirl saying: “People from Bulawayo do not support their own. No matter what you do and how you sing, it’ll never be enough for people from Bulawayo. “They’re always looking down at you as an artiste and they’ll boo you off stage and treat you like Seagirl. I believe Seagirl was right in doing what she did.” Awa said when she performed in Harare, she never got any hostility from fans there. “I once performed after Cassper Nyovest in Harare some years ago. I was really nervous when I got on stage because no one there knew me. However, when I greeted the audience, they responded well and actually watched me and never booed or worse still, pelted me while I was on stage. “They gave me a chance. I wouldn’t have lasted on stage in Bulawayo,” said Awa. Noticing that she blundered by insulting patrons, Seagirl on Monday took to social media to apologise. “I’d like to apologise to my fans, the ZITF partners and the entire organisers of the ZITF Shutdown for my outburst during my performance this past weekend. “I understand that as a public figure, I’m held to a higher code of conduct. I take seriously my responsibilities as a role model and sincerely apologise to everyone I’ve disappointed. I love my fans dearly and I promise to act better in future,” wrote Seagirl.