The Chronicle From George Maponga in MIDRAND, South Africa THE African Union Election Observer Mission here has hailed the peaceful environment and lack of tension prevailing ahead of South Africa’s general elections today, which will be the sixth time the country goes to polls since the first democratic elections held 25 years ago, marking the end of apartheid rule. Some 48 political parties, including the ANC, which is expected to sail through and win the plebiscite to retain power, are contesting the elections. The elections will be held to choose South Africa’s new National Assembly and provincial legislatures for each province. Monday marked the official start of voting with special voters casting their ballots in a contest analysts said is expected to see the ruling ANC maintain its political hegemony on the political landscape of Africa’s most industrialised nation. In his address to parliamentarians during a courtesy call at the Pan African Parliament the head of the AU Election Observer Mission to SA and former Tanzanian President Mr Jakaya Kikwete commended South Africans for competing in peace saying it should be a lesson for other African countries. Mr Kikwete said while an independent South Africa was the second last country to be created in Africa before South Sudan, Pretoria had quickly matured as a model of democracy on the continent. “One open observation that I have made is that in a number of African countries before elections there is tension, a lot of tension, this is my third election to observe after the election in Zambia and most recently in Nigeria, but here there is no tension but there is competition.” He urged African countries to take a leaf from South Africa where political parties competed under an environment of calm as peoples of one united nation. He expressed optimism that the prevailing peace would continue during and after today’s elections. “‘It is your wish and the (Observer) Mission’s wish that they (South Africans) will tomorrow (today) conduct their elections peacefully and South Africa remains united,” he said. Mr Kikwete said his team which will observe the elections in all parts of South Africa would produce its interim report on the country’s polls on Friday. Zanu-PF has already tipped the ANC to be re-elected in a development that will see the liberation movement and its President Cyril Ramaphosa remain in office for another five years.