The Chronicle Sydney Kawadza, Mash West Bureau Chief PRESIDENT Mnangagwa is today expected to witness the signing of an Investment Agreement on Southern Serui Platinum Concessions between Government and the Bravura Consortium for aero-magnetic exploration of the 3 000 ha Muflox claims which are north of Selous along the Great Dyke in Mashonaland West. The Bravura Consortium is a multi-national mining house registered in the Republic of Dominica and is domiciled in Ghana with subsidiaries in Nigeria, DRC, Guinea and Zimbabwe. The aero-magnetic exploration will be done by two planes that will fly-off from Charles Prince Airport soon after the signing ceremony. In an interview yesterday, Minister of State for Provincial Affairs in Mashonaland West Mary Mliswa-Chikoka said the project would be of great value to the province which will transform and meaningfully contribute to province’s GDP. “According to the Bravura team, as soon as they prove the platinum resources they are going to commence operations and that they already have funding for the project which is great news,” she said. Officials from the Bravura Consortium recently met with Government officials ahead of the signing ceremony today. The Bravura Consortium is part of the Peters Industrial Conglomerate, an African innovative production group with an international outlook, and founded in 1999 by Benedict Peters. The conglomerate is made up of several industries with strategic investments in oil and gas, power, renewables, mining, agriculture and infrastructure development. According to the company profile, the Peters Industrial Conglomerate, with a global blue book value of about US$15b, has expanded its transformational operations to several countries across Africa and Europe. Information gleaned yesterday indicated that the Bravura Consortium is the largest independent oil producer in Africa producing more than 100 000 barrels of oil every day. Equipment required to provide core analysis by way of surface drilling has already been dispatched from France. The consortium will today launch very powerful exploration equipment and technology using two planes that penetrates up to six kilometres underground indicating the resources’ location. Mashonaland West is endowed with a vast array of minerals which have been contributing to Zimbabwe’s economy including gold, Platinum Group of Metals, chrome, copper, graphite, manganese and semi-precious stones. Zimbabwe’s mining sector is the largest contributor to export receipts contributing US$2,9b out of a total of US$4,5b with gold and platinum as the top earners. The mineral resources in Mashonaland West coupled with rich agricultural soils means the province contributes significantly to the country’s economic development.