The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter BULAWAYO mayor Solomon Mguni has urged Highlanders FC stakeholders to work together and find a solution to the club’s poor form that has seen it failing to record a win in five matches. Head coach Madinda Ndlovu has been under fire as the team struggles in his second season in charge, having lost to Harare City and Triangle United and drawn three times against Black Rhinos, Caps United and Mushowani Stars to slip into the relegation zone. Posting on his Facebook page, Mguni wrote: “Our hearts bleed for Highlanders Football Club. There can be no Bulawayo without Highlanders FC. “We urge all stakeholders involved in the affairs of Highlanders Bosso Ngenkani to exercise restraint. We must be able to put our heads together for the good of the club. “The team may not have started well this season, but there is always room for improvement. The board, executive, technical bench and players need our support in these difficult times. They will get it right.” Rumours have been doing the rounds that the poor results have wrought divisions among the Highlanders’ leadership. Meanwhile, Highlanders’ chairman Kenneth Mhlophe has assured fans that the team will turn its fortunes around, admitting that the position the side finds itself in is unusual for Highlanders. Posting on microblogging site Twitter, Mhlophe said: “This is a very difficult time for the team. It’s unusual for this great club to find itself without a win in five matches. “However, I would like to plead with every stakeholder to be patient. The technical team and the players are putting extra effort. Results will start coming.” For the 13th successive season, Bosso find themselves without a Premiership title and their poor start to the 2019 campaign has outraged the club’s supporters, whose hopes of a challenge have diminished. Highlanders’ next game is against Hwange at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday and a lot is at stake as the team seeks to redeem itself. – @DecoDecent2.