The Chronicle Isdore Guvamombe THE Sadc region should be applauded for constituting its standby military brigade that has successfully executed its mandate in the first quarter of the year, under the auspices of the African Union. AU gave Sadc Standby Brigade the first quarter of 2019 to do peacekeeping duties in its troubled spots and the brigade did extremely well. Suffice to say, this is the first time AU has slotted regional brigades as test cases, as the continental bloc moves to constitute its standby brigade. That the construction of the Sac Standby Brigade is the harbinger of reality from a long dream of the African Union to be able to deal with its troubled spots, without outside military intervention is not in question. The Sadc’s pace-setting military pedigree and scope of self-defence is more promising to all Africans instilling a belief that an AU military Brigade is more realistic than ever before, given that Africa needs to develop its own military defence systems and stop relying on Nato or AFRICOM. Nato and AFRICOM are foreign military outfits whose presence in Africa is akin to hunting with a neighbour’s dogs; they are too difficult to control. The success of the Sadc Brigade is indeed a product of well-coordinated, regional thought process, shared vision and desire for self-rule, far from the madding Western Europe. All other regions in Africa should immediately follow suit and give credence to African liberation ethos and protection of hard won independence. Suffice to say, the founding fathers of African revolution and liberation form colonialism with turn and twist in their graves with anger and disgust, should the current generation of leaders fail to do what is right, and what is right is a self-defence military outfit. In fact, reneging on the current plinth of establishing self-defence will see the founding fathers of our revolution stand in their graves. Taboo! The last decade has seen increased alternative source markets for business in Africa, bringing a paradigm shift to traditional business strangleholds of the United States in particular, and its allies in general, whose approach was premised on the big brother mentality. In all most all cases, the US and its allies in Western Europe treated African countries as toddlers and even dictated how Africa’s untapped raw material should be exploited.  To achieve this, they have decided to use AFRICOM and Nato, as fronts, from whose behinds they create a timbre for resource looting. The coming in of the Chinese and other Far East countries into Africa, albeit with a big bang, has shaken the US and its allies to the point that in their desperation to maintain hegemony on Africa’s natural resources, they have turned to regime change antics, through sponsoring of opposition political parties and/ or military interventions, disguised as anti-terrorism military co-operations. At times they call it peacekeeping, yet the reality is that they will be scouting for ways to increase US military presence and influence on the exploitation of natural resources, in a desperate attempt to elbow out the Far East. We should all be glad that Africa is moving towards self-governance through the establishment of the African Union Standby Brigade, which in effect should militarily deal with all of the continent’s trouble spots, instead of using foreign military outfits such as AFRICOM and Nato. AFRICOM and Nato can turn out to be devils in sheep skin, depending on the instruction they have from their capital for a specific mission. The US continues its activity on increasing military presence in Africa as a pretext to bringing troops to Africa and they use the slogan “war on terror”. Outside Africa, Syria is a good example. The American military operation, aimed to fight ISIS has lasted for a very long time and has not achieved its declared goals. It has killed many people. One of the reasons for this situation is that under the slogan “war on terror” the US’s real goal is to depose the Assad regime. But Washington has not taken into consideration that Syria still has historical allies (first of all Russia), that managed to stop the criminal activity of US. Another reason of US activity in Africa is a growing military influence of China. It makes Pentagon behave not just defensively, but offensively, to stop Chinese expansion in Africa in military and economic spheres. An example is the Chinese-Namibia talks over the establishment of a new naval base in Walvis Bay. So it is logical to wait for some steps from US side taking into consideration that both China and the US have their interests in Namibia, particularly in its resource base. These steps may be expressed in pushing Namibian authorities to abandon this project and “replace” it with American analog again under the slogan of “fighting against terrorism”. Here the Sadc brigade solves the equation. Such talks with the US are very tricky. If you agree with their conditions, you risk losing your sovereignty; if you don’t agree, your country can be next in the list for regime change because of the protests and sponsored revolutions, etc, like the case in Libya, Egypt and so on. So African leaders should think hard in finding reliable partners (particularly, in military cooperation) who can become real allies with no “hidden” interests. Another criticism proffered by Washington to Africa is “human rights abuse”. They use Eurocentric values such as gay rights to measure Africa’s human rights standing and this is wrong. But nobody criticises America for its human rights violations in countries like Afghanistan, Yemen and elsewhere, where American “military support” caused a lot of deaths of innocent civilians. For example, the absolute ignoring by the US of the Israeli policy towards Palestine! All this means that if the US gets interested in your country — it is time to be wary about it, because under different pretexts it finally results in intervention. In this case African countries must follow Sadc initiatives to ban any deployment of foreign troops in the region and especially under AFRICOM. This decision seems only a proper one because it prevents any kind of foreign influence on African leaders’ policies. When it comes to enriching themselves, the US and its allies will stop at nothing.