The Chronicle Joseph Madzimure, Harare Bureau PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa has extended an invitation to opposition party leaders who contested in the 2018 harmonised elections, including the MDC-Alliance to join Political Parties Dialogue (POLAD) for the betterment of the country. Presenting a State of the Nation Address in Harare on Tuesday, President Mnangagwa extended an invitation to political parties who contested in the 2018 harmonised elections who are presently not participants to POLAD. MDC-Alliance officials have snubbed POLAD for reasons that have failed to convince the public about their sincerity in seeing progress in the country. “I am happy with the progress being made under the ongoing Political Parties Dialogue and stand ready to welcome all political parties who contested in the 2018 Harmonised Elections, and are yet to be part of this forum,” said President Mnangagwa. He said the economic reforms embarked on are beginning to bear fruits. “The economic reforms we have embarked on are beginning to bear fruit,” he said. “I am aware of the pain being experienced by the poor and the marginalised. Fellow compatriots, getting the economy working again will require time, patience, unity of purpose and perseverance.” President Mnangagwa is on record saying the dialogue should be used as an instrument for durable peace. The national dialogue, through which the majority of the national political leadership has sought to find one another, and to work together on national issues, is currently underway. Other losing presidential candidates in last year’s elections have been taking part in POLAD since the dialogue is meant to tackle various challenges affecting the country. MDC-Alliance leader Nelson Chamisa wants to use the big brother attitude, saying he does not like the invitation extended to other political parties to be involved in the political dialogue with Zanu-PF. Instead, he is demanding a two-member political dialogue involving his party and Zanu-PF, a move the ruling party has rejected as excluding other political players.