The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Acting Sports Editor BACK in the day in my primary school years in Tsholotsho, teachers, during athletics competitions, used a string that was held either side of the track by those who had nothing to do, to rank us, who were competing in terms of positions. I remember pretty well that those who would hit the string first would get seven points, number two five points, number three will be given three points while the fourth placed will get a point. These individual points will be added from the various events to determine the winning school house at interhouse competitions. With time, the grading method changed with medals now being used, gold for first, silver for second and bronze for third. Gold naturally carries more weight and it never matters the number of silver or bronze medals that one has, their weight will not be more than gold. If one’s house has 18 silver medals and no gold while the other has no silver medals but a single gold medal, the winner’s shield goes to the one with a single gold medal. In our local football achievements, the level of the tournament ought to determine who is king because all teams compete to win championships. Since 1980 The Glamour boys, Dynamos, have won 16 league titles, Bulawayo giants, Highlanders seven and The Green Machine, Caps United, five while FC Platinum have two; hence the usual phrase, ‘the country’s big three’. Even based on the support base, Dynamos, Highlanders and Caps United are in a league of their own. However, winning the local league title is not the ultimate level but qualifying for the Caf Champions League Group Stage and with more determination and of course luck, conquering Africa. As it stands only three teams have reached the Caf Champions League mini league phase, Dynamos, Caps United and yes, 1995 born FC Platinum. In fact, Pure Platinum Play, next month, will be going to their second Caf Champions League Group Stage participation, a feat only bettered by Dynamos who were quarterfinalists in 1981, 1984, 1987 and 1995 and finalists in 1998. In 1999 and 2010, DeMbare managed to reach the Group Stage of the tournament. Makepekepe were in their maiden and only Group Stage in 2017. Since the Caf Champions League has more weight (gold) than the local league title, does the big three tag still has to be in reference to Dynamos, Highlanders and Caps United? It’s debatable yes but at the moment surely judging by achievements, which every club craves for, the identity of Zimbabwe’s top three clubs need to change.