The Chronicle Andile Tshuma/ Rutendo Ngara, Chronicle Reporters BULAWAYO Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Judith Ncube has blasted men who are taking advantage of transport challenges to sexually assault women and girls in crowded buses and kombis. In an interview with The Chronicle, Cde Ncube said she had received numerous complaints of sexual harassment from women using public transport. She said she received the most worrying complaint from junior parliamentarians recently, who said young girls and women were falling prey to perverts in crowded buses who fondle or sexually touch them without their consent. “It is very worrying. I have received these reports, especially from junior parliamentarians that some men in our society are now taking advantage of transport problems and using crowded buses to explore dirty agendas such as caressing and sexually assaulting women and girls in these buses,” said the Minister. “While we cannot deny that in a crowded bus there will be a lot of contact between people of both sexes, I urge people to be responsible and be guided by the principles of Ubuntu at all times.  Let us not violate each other in any way in these buses. “I urge men to be sensible and to protect young girls and women around them all the time”. Meanwhile, a prevention officer at the Aids Health Care Foundation, Mrs Sphathisiwe Sibanda, has said some men are in the habit of taking advantage of overcrowding in buses to sexually violate girls and women. “There are a lot of challenges when it comes to transport, things have gone up. “Kombi fares and bus fares are up and the girl child is now vulnerable to sexual harassment in buses because some males take advantage of the situation. “There was a discussion with the Minister of State (Bulawayo) to avail transport for learners during convenient hours, that is in the morning and when they are knocking off,” she said during the International Girl Child commemoration in Bulawayo on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the Zimbabwe Gender Commission (ZGC) pointed out that some people take advantage of being standing passengers to sexually harass the person next to them in Zupco buses and kombis. Addressing National University of Science and Technology (Nust) students, ZGC Legal and investigations manager, Mrs Delis Mazambane, said: “When boarding a kombi, there is a seat called Kadoma, the people seated there are told to open their legs so that they accommodate others. That can lead to sexual harassment.”