The Chronicle Leonard Ncube/AndileTshuma, Chronicle Reporters A 65-year-old man from Inyathi died after being stabbed three times with a spear by a suspected thief who had broken into his son’s homestead and stolen four bags of cement. Acting Matabeleland North police spokesperson Sergeant Namatirai Mashona confirmed the incident which occurred on Saturday. She said Mthokozisi Mthembo (39) of Hlathini area in Kennilworth allegedly stabbed Masiza Major Moyo three times after the now deceased confronted him about the theft. Moyo, of Village 8 had teamed up with three other villagers and tracked footprints which led them to Mthembo’s homestead. Mthembo allegedly became violent when Moyo and other villagers asked for permission to search his homestead for the stolen bags of cement. He allegedly drew a spear and stabbed Moyo three times -on the forehead, neck and left ribs side. Sgt Mashona said the villagers rushed Moyo to Inyathi District Hospital where he was pronounced dead on admission due to injuries. “I can confirm that police received a report about an elderly man who was stabbed three times with a spear by a suspect who had allegedly broken into a homestead and stolen four bags of cement. “What happened is that on October 5 at night, an unknown person broke into the now deceased son’s homestead and stole four bags of cement. In the morning Moyo teamed up with other villagers Mr Bullet Moyo (40), Mr Mathias Sibanda (67) and Ms Laiza Moyo (57) and tracked footprints which led them to the accused’s place of residence,” said Sgt Mashona. She said Moyo informed the accused about their mission. Moyo allegedly requested to search Mthembo’s house since the footprints had led them to his homestead. The accused allegedly went into a hut without saying a word and returned armed with a spear. He allegedly stabbed Moyo once on the forehead, once on the neck and once on the left side of the abdomen. Sgt Mashona said Mthembo charged towards Mr Bullet Moyo who pelted him with some stones. Mthembo allegedly retreated and fled from the scene. The three villagers rushed Moyo to Inyathi District Hospital where he was pronounced dead on admission. A report was made to police leading to Mthembo’s arrest and recovery of the weapon. Moyo’s body was taken to the United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) for post-mortem. —@ncubeleon/@andile_tshuma