The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent TWO men have been arrested for allegedly fatally assaulting their friend for placing a bet using torn money during a gambling game. Matabeleland South acting provincial police spokesperson Inspector Loveness Mangena confirmed the incident which occurred on Sunday at around 2AM in Fort Rixon. She said the two suspects, Thokozani Nkomo (19) from Lahlankomo Village in Matobo and Nyasha Muzungu (26) of Mpopoma suburb in Bulawayo were gambling with Qhubekani Moyo on Saturday at around 10PM when Moyo tried to place a bet using a torn $2 note resulting in an altercation. “I can confirm that we recorded a murder case which occurred at Altyre Farm in Fort Rixon. Thokozani Nkomo, Nyasha Muzungu and Qhubekani Moyo were gambling behind St Theresa Tuckshop in Fort Rixon when Moyo tried to place a bet with a torn $2 note. “Nkomo and Muzungu refused to accept the torn money but Moyo insisted that the money could be used which resulted in an altercation,” she said. “They then abandoned the game and left for their homes while still arguing about the torn money. Along the way they met Moyo’s friend who intervened and persuaded Moyo to go with him to his house to spend the night.” Insp Mangena said the following morning at around 2AM, Moyo left his friend’s homestead and when he was a few metres away, he met Nkomo and Muzungu who confronted him over the torn money. She said Muzungu and Nkomo started assaulting Moyo with stones and logs. Moyo called out for help until his friend heard him. Insp Mangena said Moyo’s friend teamed up with other villagers and they rushed to the scene where they found him lying unconscious on the ground. Nkomo and Muzungu had fled. Insp Mangena said Moyo was rushed to the nearest clinic where he was pronounced dead upon arrival. The matter was reported to the police resulting in the two suspects’ arrest. The police spokesperson said stones and logs that the suspects had used to attack Moyo were found at the scene. Insp Mangena urged members of the public to desist from engaging in violence when faced with disputes. “As police we continue to advise people who have misunderstandings to engage third parties instead of resorting to violence. In this case someone was beaten to death over a small issue that could have been resolved. “People should also desist from carrying dangerous weapons as that is an offence. We are conducting awareness campaigns across the province against carrying of dangerous weapons where we are mainly targeting mining areas,” she said. — @DubeMatutu.