The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter MATABELELAND North Province has set up committees to prepare for the anti-sanctions campaign march scheduled for next week Friday. Provincial Development Coordinator Ms Latiso Dlamini who chairs the steering committee said it is all systems go as the province embraces the call for removal of sanctions. Provinces are set to hold their own events to run concurrently with the national march to be presided over by President Mnangagwa in Harare. Matabeleland North held a preparatory meeting in Lupane where the committees were set ahead of the event at Somhlolo Stadium. “We are at an advanced stage in terms of preparations as we have set various committees to mobilise resources and people towards the day. As Matabeleland North we fully embrace the call and we are inviting as many people as possible to turn up at the provincial event to be held at Somhlolo Stadium on October 25,” said Ms Dlamini. She appealed to people from all walks of life to attend saying the campaign is not a political party event but transcends across religious, political and social statuses. Sadc Heads of State, meeting at the recent 39th Summit in Tanzania, set October 25 as the day of solidarity against the illegal sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe.  Member states are already on a similar drive, carrying out various activities in their respective countries in solidarity with Zimbabwe. Zanu-PF Matabeleland North Youth League chairman Cde Tamuka Nyoni said youths in the province were also on a drive to mobilise people from all the seven districts to attend the march. He said Matabeleland North is hard hit by the sanctions imposed by America and her allies as many businesses have closed leaving many without jobs. “The reason why we want everyone to participate is that as long as sanctions are there nothing moves. Our province is dominated by youths as exhibited in the voting patterns in the previous elections but all of these youths are unemployed because companies either closed or are running below capacity,” he added. For about two decades, sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe have caused untold suffering on ordinary citizens. Sanctions continue to cause immense suffering to Zimbabwe and the coming in of the new dispensation ushered in the re-engagement thrust aimed at thawing frosty relations with the West, with the objective of getting the illegal sanctions lifted. The continued renewal of sanctions by the United States and its allies in the European Union is derailing Government’s efforts of rejuvenating the country’s socio-economic recovery and progress. The country’s productive sectors: mining, agriculture, energy and manufacturing continue to perform below capacity owing to the difficult economic environment as a result of the illegal sanctions. — @ncubeleon