The Chronicle Nkosilathi Sibanda A TYPICAL day’s work for Mr Daniel Moyo and his three business partners at a car repair shop in Bulawayo takes up to 12 hours. When they opened their garage in 2012, they were comfortable with the normal 9AM to 5PM shift, until the demands of the industry forced them to put more time to their craft. Mr Moyo, at only 34 years of age has been to China and India where he learned that a few more hours on the job can bring a difference on the profits with more clients seeking assistance. The long hours have paid off. Inspired by the Chinese working model that involves the ‘996’ ethic, the young business partners want to be an example of how Zimbabwe’s working class can gain from China. People from the Asian countries such as China are often regarded as hard working. The Chinese according to Beijing based journalist Lilly Wang, work an average of 46 hours per week. “I travel to China once in a while and that is where I met business friends that advised me that I must be a self-starter and work hard. “There is a golden ‘996’ rule in China that has worked wonders for the economy. ‘996’ requires people to work from 9AM to 9PM for six days a week. Even if the Chinese economy has taken a great leap over the last 10 years, it does not make Chinese people work less. I believe if as Zimbabweans we create a conducive environment for the labour force, we can copy China and do our best to revive the economy by working hard and starting our own initiatives,” said the young entrepreneur. The amount of time that Mr Moyo’s mechanics put into their work is unusual to many of Zimbabwe’s working class, both in the formal and informal sector. Twelve hours of work is strange in a country whose working population is content with just eight hours or less. “Hard work is a trait that Zimbabweans are known for in the Diaspora. Back home, the enthusiasm for work is unmatched but few in the labour market are willing to go the extra mile. “Yet, the Chinese work model was moulded in the midst of its worst economic hardships and can be adopted to blend in the local working class in achieving the Zimbabwean dream,” said Mr Moyo. Economic and development scholars say the secret to the Chinese economic boom lies in its workforce and the people’s attitude toward hard work in the face of challenges. The Chinese work ethic is based on a Confucian Principle encapsulated by philosopher Confucius, which demands respect and perfection in work. “The Chinese do not shrink away from work but embrace it, believing it begets success,” said Dr Mandlenkosi Nyoni, a sociology lecturer at the University of Johannesburg who worked in China for five years. Similarly, Mr Moyo and his partners seem to have mastered the Confucian Principle. The same can be said with the majority of SMEs in the agriculture, retail and primary industries. How the Chinese leaped the development graph through a sound work ethic is explained by President Xi Jinping in his compendium Governance of China. “People make history, and work creates the future. Work is the fundamental force driving the progress of human society. “Work has shaped the Chinese nation and its glorious history, and it is work that will shape its bright future. There is nothing that cannot be accomplished through hard work.” There is an example to what President Xi espouses, as seen in how companies such as Toyota made a work culture among their workforce bring growth, global penetration and local economic sustenance. President Xi’s view opens the local populace to face the economic hurdles head-on. In an endeavour to build businesses that would create sustainable jobs, Zimbabwean start-ups and industries can apply the Chinese culture of “Chi Ku”- the act of persisting through hardship. “Honest hard work, self- driven approach to work must be upheld. We must emulate model workers. Model workers are the cream of the country and role models for the people,” said President Xi. A series of interviews with Zimbabwean workers at Chinese-owned firms in Hwange and Bulawayo reveals a lot on how locals have come to view work, creativity and discipline. Hwange is home to a number of coal mines run by Chinese nationals and other mining, power and construction concerns. Ms Fiona Chilumba, a worker at South Mining said in the short stint she has been attached at the mine, she has learned the value of hard work and enterprise. “The Chinese that I work for are driven by results and leave no stone unturned in delivering the best. I have learned to be punctual and use my time wisely,” she said. She added that their supervisors and foreman work hand in hand with them. Mr Moyo does not recall the last time he ate dinner with his family on time. He gets home to find his two children already asleep. His wife complains about it, yet she appreciates that the family has never missed a meal. President Xi’s speech highlighted that sacrifices have to be made in the quest to achieve greatness. “Model workers and other role models should cherish the honour conferred upon them and deliver an even better performance. They should be dedicated to work and make selfless contributions. “Hard work will overcome difficulties and make one’s dream come true.” Lessons are to be derived from President Xi and the Chinese culture if Zimbabwe wants to have desirable economic outputs driven by self-starters and hard workers, says Mr Prosper Ndiweni, a development strategist at a local labour consultancy company. “There is a lot to derive and learn from China. Let us do away with all the propaganda and seek the positives. China, as we know it, grew from being just an agriculture driven economy to be the world’s factory. It was all to do with people’s hard work and approach even if the economy was not doing well. Zimbabwe can achieve the same economic miracle if workers become self-driven, government and industry must agree on sound economic reform.” The ethos of hard work and self-determination is also seen in Zvishavane and Gwanda where there are Chinese companies. Communities report that they are now geared to start their own businesses and are amazed at what they learn everyday. “Some of us who worked for various Chinese projects came out sharp and ready to start businesses. Even those still employed tell you that you can never separate Chinese from hard work. We have to do the same here. “I have realised that for us as the working class and business leaders in Zimbabwe, we have to be socialised not just to work hard, but to work hard for the long-term benefit of the family,” said Mr Moyo who is also a member of a local consortium of emerging businessmen. Small and medium enterprises in Zimbabwe contribute immensely to the economy. In fact, these car mechanics are proud to be part of the many SMEs who are credited with keeping the country on the wheel. The work ethic they exhibit is more than a show of keeping the business running but, more of a work ethic and culture that most in the working class ought to emulate. Mr Moyo and crew rack in money that few who knock off from work early could earn. While to some it appears as too heavy a load to bear, having a 12-hour shift, it is commonplace in countries that have managed to grow their economies through a sound working culture. Earlier in the year, President Mnangagwa made a clarion call to civil servants to desist from laziness. This follows outcries from members of the public over the sluggishness of workers in different Government departments. Women Affairs, Community and Small and Medium Enterprises Development Minister Dr Sithembiso Nyoni underscored the need for emerging businesses to ground themselves in being self-driven as what the Chinese are accustomed to. “The Chinese are developing because of their work ethic,” she said. “Young people must bring business start-ups, viable ideas hinged on establishing companies and industries that create employment. I emphasise that hard work is key if our small to medium developments master the Chinese art of hard work. No one can push us but ourselves. I always tell the youth in business countrywide that success starts from within as individuals. If China made it, why can’t we?” As a guide into how China rose to become a superpower, President Xi’s compendium lends local workers and industrialists an insight to how hard work, behaviour change and attitude to work, whether formal or informal can lead to economic prosperity.