The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter THE Zanu-PF Politburo has deployed a team led by the party’s national chairperson Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri to meet provinces in preparation for the party’s restructuring exercise. The ruling party re-introduced District Co-ordinating Committees (DCC) and a few days ago the Politburo endorsed newly-elected Harare province DCC executive members with Bulawayo expected to hold the elections soon. Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri, accompanied by Politburo members, Cde Mike Bimha, who is also the Zanu-PF secretary for indigenisation and economic empowerment, Lieutenant-General Engelbert Rugeje (Retired) and Youth League deputy secretary, Cde Lewis Matutu were at the party’s Matabeleland North offices in Lupane yesterday where there was a Provincial Co-ordinating Committee (PCC) meeting. The Women’’s League secretary, Cde Mabel Chinomona, could not travel with the delegation which started its meetings in Matabeleland South on Saturday. In an interview after the PCC meeting, the party’s Matabeleland North provincial chairman, Cde Richard Moyo, said the province had been notified of the looming restructuring exercise, likely to take place after the party’s National Conference set for December. “We were graced at the PCC by a team led by national chair and deployed by the Politburo through the National Commissariat. The delegation was here to explain a number of issues and update us as a province on the current situation both in the party and in the country,” said Cde Moyo. “The National chair gave an update of economy and projects put in place by Government for economic revival. She explained to members the issue of reintroduction of DCCs as she gave an update that Harare province has done the process with Bulawayo expected to have its share before the conference.” Cde Moyo said the reintroduction of DCCs was a welcome development as it would ensure efficiency in administering provinces. “The DCCs will help a lot because all along the provincial chair was now going down to supervise districts and cells over and above supervising the province. This was strenuous and now it will be better because DCCs will handle all issues and submit recommendations to the province for referral to the national executive,” he said. — @ncubeleon