The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter A BULAWAYO teacher who allegedly raped a Form Two pupil after sneaking into her blankets while she was asleep, has appeared in court. Nelton Kapeta (38) of Nkulumane suburb and employed at Mabhukudwane Primary School appeared before Bulawayo regional magistrate Mr Joseph Mabeza facing rape charges. Kapeta, who is out of custody on $50 bail, was remanded to October 17 for continuation of trial. Prosecuting, Mr Thobekani Nyathi said on January 20 this year at around 1AM, the complainant was sleeping with her younger sister when Kapeta allegedly stormed their bedroom. The court heard that soon after walking into the room, which was not locked, Kapeta allegedly sneaked into the blankets and started fondling the complainant’s breasts. “The complainant woke up and asked the accused person what he was doing and Kapeta responded by saying he wished the girl was his wife. The complainant bolted out of the house and sat on the veranda after which the accused person went away. Three hours later, the complainant went back to her room and slept before she was awakened by the accused person who allegedly went on to rape her. “The complainant tried to wrestle with the accused person but she was overpowered,” said the prosecutor. When the alleged offence occurred, the complainant’s grandparents had visited their rural home. The complainant only revealed the rape two weeks later and a report was made to the police leading to Kapeta’s arrest. In her testimony, the victim who is aged 15 years, said she delayed reporting the matter to her guardians out of fear. “I remained silent and had no one to tell since my grandfather had gone to Jotsholo. When he returned, I did not tell him about the rape because I was afraid. I went to my stepmother’s house on February 4 after knocking off from school and narrated my ordeal. She informed my grandfather who in turn accompanied me to the police station where we reported the matter,” she said. — @mashnets