The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A GANG of six machete-wielding robbers has been arrested for allegedly attacking three security guards at a mine in Esigodini before seizing 80kg of gold ore whose value is yet to be ascertained. Matabeleland South acting provincial police spokesperson Inspector Loveness Mangena confirmed the incident which occurred on Sunday at around midnight at Liberty Syndicate Mine in Esikhoveni. She said the suspects – Vezinhlanhla Ncube (25) from Gwanda, Admire Mpofu (23) and Timothy Dube (22) both from Nkayi, John Mpofu (22) from Kwekwe, Bongani Tshuma (19) from Binga and Agrippa Mutsaka (46) from New Lobengula in  Bulawayo were intercepted by police at the Esigodini Tollgate while transporting their loot. “I can confirm that we recorded a robbery case which occurred at Liberty Syndicate Mine, Esikhoveni area in Esigodini. “The six suspects who were armed with machetes arrived at the mine and attacked three security guards. They stole 80kg of gold ore from the mine whose value is still to be ascertained and left with it in a taxi. “One of the security guards memorised the number plates of the vehicle before it left and alerted the mine owner who went on to inform the police,” she said. “The gang was intercepted by police at Esigodini Tollgate resulting in their arrest. Investigations are underway. “As police we would like to urge members of the public to be on alert in cases of robberies just like the security guard who noted down the number plates. People should also hasten to report crimes so that police can act swiftly and arrest the culprits. Early reporting makes police work easier.” A source close to investigations who preferred anonymity said the gang arrived at the mine and found three security guards Mr Bhekumuzi Cele, Mr Ishmael Mente and Mr Bulisani Dube who were on duty. He said the gang assaulted the security guards with machetes, forcing them to flee. The source said the gang pursued Mr Cele and caught up with him while the other security guards fled in different directions. “The gang assaulted Mr Cele and force marched him to the mine where they ordered him to pack some gold ore which was at the mine into their sacks. “They further ordered him to carry the gold ore to where they were going to board a taxi. They loaded their loot into the taxi and fled from the scene leaving Mr Cele lying on the ground,” said the source.—@DubeMatutu