The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter THE National University of Science and Technology (Nust) DNA laboratory has said it was pegging its charges against the interbank rate to remain viable as most of their material is sourced in foreign currency. Nust’s Applied Genetic Testing Centre (AGTC) is involved in various projects such as paternity tests, DNA profiling, forensic profiling among other landmark developments. Government this year engaged AGTC in profiling Cyclone Idai victims while on countless occasions the laboratory has been involved in identification of accident victims burnt beyond recognition. In an interview yesterday, AGTC director Mr Zephaniah Dhlamini said to effectively offer service they are charging their services in local currency but in full view of their need to source foreign currency. “We get most of our lab materials outside the country meaning we require foreign currency for our operations. However, we don’t charge in US dollars but in the local currency using the interbank rate. For example, per person we used to charge US$70 for a test, so we calculate that using the interbank rate in making our local currency charges. For forensic cases, we peg at interbank rate of US$200 so we just follow the interbank rate in coming up with our charges,” said Mr Dhlamini. He said their pricing system has not affected their business operations as they still retain a similar number of clients. “In any case, most of our clients are those who would be doing DNA profiling for their cattle over those conducting paternity tests,” he said. AGTC tests led to the arrest of three suspected cattle rustlers after stolen meat carcasses were found in Magwegwe North linking the suspects to crimes committed in Esigodini, Matabeleland South. In August, Government released $900 000 to AGTC to capacitate it so that it continues offering efficient services in the context of its national importance. Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Minister Professor Amon Murwira said the laboratory played a crucial role during Cyclone Idai disaster. —@nqotshili.