The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter A BINGA couple has been arrested for ill-treating its four-year-old daughter by denying her food and other basic needs for two years. The couple, whose details have been concealed to protect the child’s identity, got married in 2017 when the little girl from the woman’s previous marriage was two years old. For two years the infant was given one meal per day, not bathed regularly, made to sleep alone without blankets in a dilapidated hut and denied medical care among other abuses, Binga magistrate Mrs Portia Mhlanga-Moyo heard. The husband and wife who live in Sianjoma village under Chief Saba were arrested following a tip-off to the police and Social Welfare department by other villagers who witnessed the abuse. Social Welfare officers took the girl to hospital for medical attention where nurses said she was malnourished weighing less than 8kg. Children aged four years usually weigh over 20 kg. The Social Welfare department placed her under the custody of a children’s home in Binga on the recommendation of a probation officer. The couple was tried separately after the husband initially pleaded not guilty while the minor’s mother pleaded guilty to ill-treating or neglecting a child or any young person, in terms of the Children’s Protection Act. The girl’s mother was sentenced to six months in prison which was wholly suspended on condition that she doesn’t commit a similar offence within the next five years. Her husband who later changed his plea of not guilty during trial, was sentenced to 12 months in prison. The magistrate suspended six months on condition of good behaviour while the other six months were suspended on condition that he completes 210 hours of community service in Mlibizi. Prosecuting, Mr Quiet Mpofu said the woman acted on her husband’s instruction to deny the little girl basic needs. “On dates unknown to the prosecutor but during the period between January 2019 and last week, both accused intentionally ill-treated the little girl by denying her access to food, clothing, shelter, education, medical attention and care necessary for her health or wellbeing,” said the prosecutor. “The husband, who is the victim’s stepfather, ordered the girl’s mother not to give her food. She was fed once a day while her half siblings ate several meals per day. “The kid slept alone in a dilapidated hut without blankets while others slept in a proper hut with blankets. She was also not bathed and denied access to medical care.” Some neighbours tipped off police and social welfare officers who visited the family leading to the arrest of the couple. — -@ncubeleon