The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili/Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporters Zanu-PF yesterday said Western sanctions on the country are contributing to high unemployment, de-industrialisation and needless loss of lives in hospitals. The revolutionary party urged Zimbabweans to take a stand against the illegal measures for decimating people’s livelihoods by partaking in the solidarity march tomorrow. In a statement yesterday the party’s national spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya Moyo hailed Sadc for dedicating tomorrow as a day to denounce the embargo. The regional bloc, at its 39th Ordinary Summit in Tanzania in August, declared 25 October 2019 as the solidarity day against illegal sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe. “These sanctions are an act of terrorism on Zimbabwe leading to massive unemployment. The costs to the Zimbabwean economy which are sanctions-induced have been estimated into billions of United States dollars. Whilst the nation is resourced abundantly with minerals, it has been difficult to access capital to exploit them due to the created perception of a high-risk destination. Economic opportunities and hope for the indigenous people have been destroyed due to these machinations,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said Government is failing to re-equip hospitals and access drugs for the health institutions due to the illegal sanctions.  “These multi-faceted sanctions have caused the shortage of medicines and critical equipment in hospitals. Lives have been needlessly lost leading to the emergence of child headed families, widows and orphans. These are the debilitating effects of this catastrophe which has been foisted upon Zimbabweans,” he said. Cde Khaya Moyo said since the sanctions were imposed on Zimbabwe in 2002 the country has suffered economic challenges despite Governments efforts resuscitate it. He said the country was failing to access financial support as America and its allies block any monetary aid to spur the country for economic growth. “Sanctions are at the core of economic challenges bedevilling the country. It is now common knowledge that the United States of America and its allies have instructed its nationals sitting on corporate boards to block financial inflows into Zimbabwe and the subsequent forfeiture of any money which would have passed through it. These criminal and diabolic acts have led to the collapse and closure of industries and retail establishments where people derived their livelihood,” he said. Cde Khaya Moyo said every citizen should tomorrow join the nation and the region in speaking against the ruinous illegal embargo. He hailed President Mnangagwa for his diplomatic shrewdness which propelled regional leaders to also take a stand against the illegally imposed Western sanctions. Meanwhile, Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Judith Ncube has appealed to the business community to assist with food to feed thousands of people who are expected to gather for the solidarity day. The main activity will be at the National Sports Stadium in Harare and people in Bulawayo will converge at the White City Stadium. “We appeal to the business community to assist as they always do at the national gatherings that we always hold. This is a time of mourning and as in such gatherings, people must eat. We therefore appeal for all the assistance that we can get so that people can be fed. We appreciate all the efforts and assistance that some business people have already given us and I encourage that this spirit of unity and ubuntu continues as it is what binds us as people of Bulawayo and people of Zimbabwe,” she said.  — @andile_tshuma @nqotshili