The Chronicle Editor — I express great disapproval of this pre-sale of stands scheme by Bulawayo City Council (BCC). I believe this scheme is meant to help BCC gain financial leverage in tough times. This scheme appears to be bogus in that surely how can almost 400 home-seekers be denied permission to build their houses because of an outstanding US$90 000. The US$90 000 is the amount BCC owes the contractor who will put tarmac on the roads.  “Surprisingly”, this US$90 000 is the amount owed by the prospective home seekers. A BCC stand in 2016 was approximately US$5 200 inclusive of taxation. This means when we divide US$90 000 by US$5 200 we get approximately 17 home-seekers who defaulted. Statistically a majority of home-seekers  paid up their dues. In politics the majority has the voice. Let us respect the majority who paid their hard earned monies. Over 300 home seekers must not be affected by a few people. Let us be humanitarian and be people of integrity. How can one become a lodger for four years because of merely a tarmac. What is special with these Emganwini stands? Do you think they are any better than all stands that have no tarmac in Bulawayo? These prospective home-seekers all paid US$3 000 in February 2016 as deposit for the stands. Old Mutual issued out pre-sale stands in Nkulumane in 2018 at approximately the same cost. They were in need  of 50% deposit. Today all those who applied for those stands are smiling because they are all serviced. It was a struggle for Luveve 4 home-seekers who bought these pre-sale stands from BCC in 2009 to be granted permission to build their houses in 2018. Almost 10 years waiting for a stand to be serviced. I perceive some misappropriation of our funds hence the failure to release our Emganwini stands promptly. US$90 000 is the cost of a single low density house. I call upon all those who feel affected like myself to air  their views also.  These are not sanctions but I feel poor management of the city affairs. I lament the departure from BCC of great City Fathers like George Mlilo and Isaiah Magagula who had great compassion for Bulawayo residents. Righteousness exalts a nation but sin is a reproach to all people. It appears city council by laws are strong where there is income generation for them.  It is easy to chase and collect vendors’ merchandise. It is easy to clamp people’s cars and collect fines but difficult to honour your obligation of providing accommodation for people.  Let us remove the ‘speck in our eyes’ before taking people’s monies. Unhappy Prospective Home-seeker, Bulawayo