The Chronicle Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief THE Government has allocated 10 hectares of land per district for youth projects as a means of promoting youth empowerment, Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate and Rural Resettlement Minister Perrance Shiri has said. He said the youths were expected to start projects soon. “Concerning the issue of allocating 10 hectares for youth projects in every district of each province, my office has officially communicated to the respective Ministers of State for Provincial Affairs regarding that important issue,” he said. Meanwhile, the Ministry will on Thursday honour national young champion farmers who excelled in the farming business in the past year. The event, which will be graced by President Mnangagwa, will be held in Harare. Head of the Youth Desk in the Ministry Mr Nickros Kajengo said preparations for the annual young champion farmer awards are now at advanced stage. “On Thursday we are hosting the national young champion farmer awards in Harare which will be graced by President Mnangagwa. We have several prizes for the winners. The awards are meant to honour the good works by the young people and all those playing a positive role in the farming sector. “Competition among farmers, exhibitions and awards help in promoting farmer to farmer interaction promote markets and sharing of ideas. The event is being organised by the Ministry with the support of corporate partners such as Zimbabwe Farmers Union (ZFU), Syngenta, Seed-Co and Aspindale MarketS,” he said. Mr Kajengo said the new dispensation values the youths who are now the game changers in as far as agricultural production is concerned. “Young people are all over in the agricultural value chains. We have around 40 000 registered active young farmers throughout the country. We want the number to increase to at least 10 000 per province. Zimbabwe is an agro based country. Agriculture remains the means of livelihoods of our people,” he said. Mr Kajengo encouraged youths without land to form cooperatives or partnerships and benefit from the limited resource. “Land is limited and it is against this background that we are encouraging young people to be involved in the agricultural value chains,” he said.