The Chronicle Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief When some farm owners around him decided to concentrate on chrome mining, he chose to use his piece of land to grow crops in support of the agrarian reform which saw thousands of previously marginalised indigenous Zimbabweans getting land. Located about 70km from Kwekwe and 50km from Mvuma is 120-hectare Mahamara Farm which is in the midst of chrome claims.  In that area one would not think or dream of witnessing any successful farming activity. The vibrant farming activities at Mahamara Farm are in total contrast to the surrounding farms, plots and claims where owners and companies like Zimasco and ZimAlloys are busy extracting chrome ore as witnessed by mountains and heaps of ore and soil along the road. Mahamara Farm is a true indication of successful farming by Cde John Muchenje (34) and, at large, the success of the agrarian reform which started in 2000 and is now being further supported by Command Agriculture which has seen the Government availing support for wheat, tobacco and maize production to farmers.  He is disproving critics who thought that only whites can be successful farmers. As Zimbabwe and other Sadc countries hold historic events in their respective countries tomorrow to lobby for the lifting of illegal Western sanctions imposed on the country as punishment for the land reform programme, Mr Muchenje called on the youths to rise up and support the Government through the utilisation of the land purposefully. Sadc, during its 39th Ordinary Summit held in Tanzania in August, declared October 25 as the Solidarity Day Against Illegal Sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe and resolved to conduct various activities on the day to call for the immediate lifting of the sanctions.  On its part, the Government has gone further to declare the day a public holiday to allow Zimbabweans from across the country the opportunity to take a stand against the sanctions that have stood as an impediment to the development of the country for almost 20 years. For Cde Muchenje, if all people who benefited from the agrarian reform work on the land, the country will be the bread-basket of the region again.  He said his father, Francis, who died in 2007 was a war veteran while his mother, Sekai, was a war collaborator and qualified farmer who wants to see a free and socio-economically growing Zimbabwe. To show that he is a serious farmer, Cde Muchenje is in the process of transporting 100 tonnes of maize to the Grain Marketing Board and managed to sell 140 tobacco bales. He also had soya beans and has already planted maize and cabbages. “I was encouraged by my parents who always urged me to make use of the land and take it as a crucial legacy. My mother is a qualified farmer and has been very supportive of the agrarian reform and Command Agriculture,” said Cde Muchenje. He employs 40 locals who also now have access to clean water and decent accommodation. “I have employed around 40 locals both females and males. Farming has positively affected my area in that there is now employment for farm workers and surrounding villagers. They are now able to pay fees for their children. I also provide groceries at wholesale prices to the farm workers. “There is also provision of affordable produce like sugar beans and cabbages at the producer price for the surrounding community. There is access to clean water for the neighbourhood,” said Cde Muchenje. Asked why he ventured into farming as opposed to chrome mining like his neighbours, Cde Muchenje said, “A lot of youths around me are into mining but I chose farming because I feel I have to play a part in ensuring food security for the country. Our nation needs to be fed and I feel as a young person I have an obligation to ensure that I play my part to provide food for the nation. “Secondly, Zimbabwe is an agro-based economy which means our economy relies on agriculture hence I also need to play a role in development of this country. Thirdly, I was inspired by President Mnangagwa to venture into commercial farming so I need to show him what he challenged me to do.” Cde Muchenje has since bought pumps for boreholes which had been vandalised so that the community has access to water for free. He said he realised his dream of becoming a successful farmer after he was challenged by President Mnangagwa in 2016 when he toured the then Vice President’s farm in Sherwood Block, Kwekwe. “When I met His Excellency Cde ED Mnangagwa in 2016 after touring his farm in Sherwood, he challenged me to do commercial farming so that I contribute directly to the growth of the economy hence I ventured into large scale farming,” he said. Cde Muchenje has invested in a centre pivot and a tractor among other farming equipment but says he needs a combine harvester and more tractors. “I don’t have a combine harvester among other essential farming equipment needed. So when it is harvesting time I have to hire or be told to wait for some time. Hiring is expensive and it weighs me down. So I call on the Government to avail cheap farming equipment for young farmers,” he said. Agriculture and the youth are compatible, Cde Muchenje said, adding that for the country to regain its status as the breadbasket of southern Africa, more youths should be allocated land and farming equipment for the dream to be realised. In his speech after being sworn in in 2017, President Mnangagwa stressed the role of new farmers in the country’s economic recovery. In that year, the country produced more maize than was ever grown by white farmers, who have repeatedly been praised for turning the country into the breadbasket of Africa. Maize production in 2017 was 2,2 million tonnes, the highest in history thanks to the Command Agriculture programme spearheaded by the Government. Command Agriculture, Cde Muchenje said, has been assisting farmers throughout the country with inputs. “I would like to thank His Excellency for such an initiative in the country and his support to the youth in agriculture so that youths take agriculture as a noble profession,” said Cde Muchenje, also a qualified accountant.