The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Livingstone, Zambia THE Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (Zacc) yesterday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) of Zambia to fight cross border economic crimes. The development comes as Zimbabwe is making frantic efforts to recover money and assets stashed outside the country obtained through proceeds of crime, said Zacc chairperson Justice Loice Matanda-Moyo. She and ACC acting Director General Mrs Rosemary Nkonde-Khuzwayo presided over the signing ceremony at a hotel here. Zimbabwe and Zambia are signatories and state parties to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) which encourages states to enter into bilateral/multilateral treaties to foster cooperation between law enforcement agencies based on the foundation of mutual trust, respect and interests against corruption. The MoU, which will be effective for five years, will provide a broad base to combat corruption and economic crimes as well as enhance cooperation in tracing and recovering proceeds of crime. It follows earlier exchange visits between the two anti-corruption bodies which Justice Matanda-Moyo said symbolise the brotherhood of the two countries. Speaking during the signing ceremony, on the side-lines of a Fast Tracking UNCAC Implementation conference, Justice Matanda-Moyo said the agreement is a milestone in achieving best practices in the fight against corruption in Zimbabwe and Zambia. “Today we are here to formalise this collaboration. The MoU will include collaboration in the exchange of information, joint investigations, mutual assistance in the recovery of proceeds of crime and exchange of skilled personnel among others. “Corruption is a complex and global social phenomenon which permeates across borders and therefore can never be fought in isolation. It takes joint efforts at local, regional and international levels to win in the fight against this menace,” said Justice Matanda-Moyo. She said the MoU is not only a fulfilment of obligations under UNCAC but strengthens skills capacity through sharing expertise and creation of easy coordination in the investigation of corruption cases without going through bureaucracy. Mrs Nkonde-Khuzwayo said globalisation had enhanced cross border business transactions which are a breeding ground for illicit crimes. “Globalisation has made it easier for people involved in illegal activities and corruption to hide their proceeds of crime in other countries which makes it difficult for law enforcement agencies to prosecute such crimes without an agreement with other countries. “It is against this background that UNCAC encourages states to enter into bilateral treaties to foster cooperation between law enforcement agencies. The signing of this MoU marks a milestone that started way back,” she said. “It will help the two countries jointly foster mutual cooperation in the fight against corruption, money laundering and other improprieties through sharing information, knowledge and expertise, technical assistance and collaboration in investigations of cross border corruption and money laundering offences, mutual legal assistance in corruption and money laundering matters.”  — @ncubeleon