The Chronicle Cuthbert Mavheko It is the strong contention of this scribe that the spate of ‘abductions’ that have occurred in the country over the past few months are a new tactic being employed by agents of regime change to tarnish the country’s image. Civil society groups pontificate that over 50 people have been ‘abducted’ since the beginning of the year. When Dr Peter Magombeyi, acting president of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors’ Association (ZHDA) went missing, not so long ago, doctors promptly went on strike, protesting against his “abduction” which, they inferred, had been carried out by State security agents. In November last year, MDC Alliance leader Advocate Nelson Chamisa claimed that an abduction attempt had been made on his person by alleged State security agents as he made his way from a rally in Marondera. However, the stage-managed video clip capturing the alleged abduction attempt failed dismally to project the picture that Advocate Chamisa and his cronies in the MDC Alliance sought to substantiate their claims that the Government had dispatched State security agents to abduct him. Alas, attempts by Advocate Chamisa to portray himself as an alleged victim of the State later turned out to be calculated mischief meant to win him sympathy in the face of leadership wrangles within his strife-torn party. It is crucially important to note that since Advocate Chamisa and the MDC Alliance suffered a crushing defeat at the hands of Zanu-PF in last year’s harmonised elections, he has tried to save face by riding on the mantra that the revolutionary party ‘stole’ the election. This has proved unsuccessful, hence the change of tactics. As I have already said, these so-called abductions which are occurring in the country are being stage-managed by regime change agents out to discredit Cde Mnangagwa’s constitutionally-elected Government. By embarking on a strike after Dr Magombeyi’s alleged disappearance, doctors left scores of patients across the country stranded with some of them reportedly succumbing to their infirmities as there were no doctors to attend to them. Indeed, this is a heart-rending scenario. It is also worth noting that by withdrawing their labour, Zimbabwe’s doctors actually poured scorn on the basic tenets of the Hippocratic Oath, which was crafted to guide and direct them in pursuance of their duties as medical practitioners. The Hippocratic Oath is an oath of ethics historically taken by physicians all over the world. It is one of the most widely-known of Greek medical texts and requires doctors to uphold specific ethical standards. The oath, which was written by Hippocrates, is one of the oldest binding documents in modern history and is still held sacred by physicians the world over. Among other things, the Hippocratic Oath requires physicians to put the interests of their patients ahead of their own interests and to treat the sick to the best of their ability and so on. Having said all this, let me now point out that the recent decision by the Government to set up an office of the Coroner General, tasked with carrying out thorough investigations into the increasing number of deaths that are occurring in our hospitals, clinics and various other places is a step in the right direction and will, no doubt, go a long way in ensuring that sanity prevails in our health institutions. According to some reports, the office of the Coroner General is to effectively and impartially investigate unnatural deaths like infanticides, homicides, suicides and accidents. This comes in the wake of shocking reports that some doctors are becoming so negligent in the discharge of their duties that some of them are reportedly leaving such things as surgical gloves, scissors and so on in the wombs of some patients during surgery. The High Court has, over the years, been flooded with an avalanche of lawsuits against doctors who, through sheer negligence, are causing the deaths of hordes of patients. Worryingly though, the culprits are often exonerated because they hire some of the best legal minds in the country to represent them in court. “In 2009 my wife delivered a baby by Caesarean section. A few weeks later, she was re-admitted to the same hospital after complaining of severe pains in her womb. A body scan later revealed that surgeons who operated her had negligently left a surgical knife in her womb. She had to undergo further surgery to remove the knife. The surgery flopped and she never regained consciousness. “After her demise we filed a lawsuit against the doctors concerned, but the doctors were acquitted because they had effective legal representation in court,” said Mr Pedzisai Tafadzwa, who was in tears as he narrated his ordeal to this scribe. This narrative is just a tip of the proverbial iceberg; harrowing stories have been told of doctors who conduct surgical operations while under the influence of alcohol, resulting in the death of some patients. Reports are also rife of some doctors who are performing surgical operations on undeserving patients just to improve and sharpen their surgical skills and this is resulting in unnecessary loss of life. If these reports are indeed true, then the Government should not tarry in weeding out these miscreants as they are tarnishing the image of the country’s medical profession. Lest I appear to be painting all our doctors with the same brush, let me hasten to point out that there are some doctors manning the country’s hospitals and clinics, who deserve kudos for their professionalism, dedication and commitment to duty. This scribe paid an impromptu visit to Mpilo Central Hospital, not so long ago, and had an audience with some mothers, whose children had just been discharged from the children’s section of the hospital and this is what they said: “In January my three-year-old grandson was badly scalded when he inadvertently dislodged a pot with boiling water from the stove. We brought him here and he was admitted in Ward PGL. At the time, we had very little hope that he would survive. But thanks to Dr Chivanga and his hard-working team, my grandson has now fully recovered and I am now taking him back home,” said Mrs Prisca Chitsike, who could hardly conceal her joy as she strapped the chuckling child on her back. Mrs Chitsike’s sentiments were echoed by another mother who spoke on condition of anonymity. “I just can’t find the right words to express my gratitude and appreciation to the doctors and nursing staff in Ward PGL, where my child was admitted. Before I came here, I had heard rumors that doctors and nurses at this hospital were negligent and rude to patients. But the doctors and nurses in the children’s wards proved to be the exact opposite. “Let me take this opportunity to thank Dr Chivanga, Dr Mungati and Dr Nhira for the excellent service they rendered my child. I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to the matron of Ward PGL, Sister Malume and her dedicated team of nurses who include Sisters L. Mpofu; Dhulula; S. Ndlovu; S. Ngwenya and Chidhindi for their dedication and commitment to duty. May God bless them all,” she said. λ Cuthbert Mavheko is a freelance journalist based in Bulawayo. He can be contacted on mobile 0773 963 448 or e-mail cmavheko@gmail.com