The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter BULAWAYO’S water woes are set to deepen as council could be forced to decommission a second dam this month as the city’s dam levels have dropped to 40 percent. Bulawayo City Council (BCC) had projected to decommission Umzingwane Dam in November after it stopped drawing water from Upper Ncema Dam in July. However, council has said Umzingwane Dam may be decommissioned earlier than projected. If that happens, council will be left with four water supply dams, Lower Ncema, Insiza, Mtshabezi and Inyankuni. The water crisis has seen council introducing a 48-hour water shedding programme which sometimes goes beyond the scheduled period. In his presentation during council’s water crisis meeting in the Council Chambers yesterday, BCC deputy director of Engineering Services Engineer Sikhumbuzo Ncube expressed concern that the city’s water consumption levels were very high. “In terms of our dam levels we are around 40,8 percent. We decommissioned Upper Ncema in July and looking at our reports we are looking at decommissioning Umzingwane dam in November. But if things continue the way they are, the decommissioning will come up earlier than November. “It’s hot and the water usage is increasing. Our demand is very high, it’s beyond the normal average consumption that we are used to have. “The normal average consumption is around 135 to 140 megalitres per day but now it’s ranging from 150 to 160 megalitres per day,” said Eng Ncube. He said water shedding and water penalties imposed on those who use water above the daily limit are some of the measures that council is using to curtail water usage. According to council’s daily water consumption limits, houses in the high-density areas were allocated 450 litres per day while those in low density areas are limited to 650 litres a day Eng Ncube said power cuts and burst pipes were also worsening the water situation. He said when there is load shedding, council is restricted from pumping water to its reservoirs. “One of the things that is greatly affecting us is electricity load shedding. As we speak Zesa has notified us that tomorrow (today) and on Thursday they will cut off power in Nyamandovu. “What that means is that we are not going to pump water on Tuesday and on Thursday from Nyamandlovu yet Nyamandlovu pumps to Magwegwe reservoir which supplies water to most western areas,” he said. “If it is like that the reservoir is very strained that is why we try to save water through shedding. “Even breakdowns are a major hindrance in our efforts to provide water. We had a serious breakdown in Ncema on Friday and our teams have been working even during the night so that they fix the problem.” Bulawayo Town Clerk, Mr Christopher Dube, said concerted effort is needed to address the city’s water problems. He said council was disappointed that two weeks ago it had to call off a scheduled meeting to discuss water problems after stakeholders boycotted the event. “We are in a crisis situation and in a crisis situation like this we expect all stakeholders to come. “Today I’m happy we are able to hold this meeting but still the attendance is very poor. It doesn’t show that we are really in a crisis meeting. “The factors that affect us in the provision of water are so many and require that we work together,” he said Mr Dube said council was considering shifting to solar power to address pumping challenges related to electricity load shedding. He said solar power usage will not happen as soon as possible due to the slow progress from two contracted companies that won tenders for solar projects in the city. — @nqotshili