The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent TWO pedestrians died after they were knocked down by cars in separate accidents that occurred in Gwanda. Matabeleland South acting provincial police spokesperson, Inspector Loveness Mangena, confirmed the incidents which both occurred in Gwanda Town on Saturday at around 7PM. She said in the first accident, Kanias Shoko of Mberengwa was hit by a vehicle near Joshua Mqabuko Polytechnic, along the Bulawayo-Beitbridge Road. ‘‘Justice Ndlovu (24) of Spitzkop suburb was driving a white Toyota Tunas along the Bulawayo-Beitbridge Road. Upon reaching the 128 kilometre peg near Joshua Mqabuko Polytechnic College, he knocked down Kanias Shoko who was crossing the road. ‘‘Shoko sustained head injuries and bruises on the stomach and died on the spot while Ndlovu sustained bruises. He was taken to Gwanda Provincial Hospital where he was treated and discharged. The cause of the accident is speeding and Ndlovu is being charged for culpable homicide. Investigations are underway,’’ she said. Insp Mangena said the second incident occurred near Mount Cazalet Primary School in Gwanda. She said Henry Khumalo (31) of Colleen Bawn was driving an Isuzu Wizard and when he was near Mount Cazalet Primary School he lost control of the vehicle which swerved to the right and hit Ian Mthandazo Mathema of Richmond in Bulawayo who was walking on the right side of the road. Insp Mangena said Mathema sustained multiple body injuries and died upon admission to Gwanda Provincial Hospital. She said investigations were underway and Khumalo was facing a culpable homicide charge. She urged motorists to ensure that they adhered to road regulations to avoid loss of life. ‘‘As police we continue to urge motorists to adhere to road regulations at all times and to exercise caution. “In this case these two incidents were a result of negligence from the drivers and two lives were lost. Drivers have to remain alert in order to avoid unnecessary fatalities,’’ Insp Mangena said. – @DubeMatutu