The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent YOUTHS in Matabeleland South Province have called for the enactment of a youth law as they felt the National Youth Policy was not enough to promote their empowerment. Speaking during a provincial National Youth Policy consultative stakeholders meeting in Gwanda on Wednesday Zanu-PF Matabeleland South Provincial Youth League Chairperson, Cde Washington Nkomo said an Act was a binding piece of legislation and with it various stakeholders could be held accountable when they overlooked issues of empowering youths. “The National Youth Policy won’t be effective unless we have an Act which can back it. The policy is not binding but an Act is a law therefore it is binding and it can be used as a referral point to hold various stakeholders accountable when they violate or infringe on rights of the youth pertaining to their empowerment. “In fact the Act is long overdue and it’s high time that it was formulated so that it can address issues on empowering youths,” he said. The youths complained that the policy had not brought tangible results on their empowerment. They said other statutes and laws which were in existence were disempowering youths. The youths called for inclusion in developmental issues within communities. They complained that they were being excluded from various decision-making platforms at village, ward and district levels. They also called for 50 percent representation in Parliament as youths comprised over 60 percent of the country’s population. The youths complained of limited access to information especially for those in rural areas. “As youths we also want our Ministry to be fully capacitated as it caters for the bulk of the country’s population. As youths we also expected to have a certain quota allocated to us in different platforms. We also need to be incorporated in all decision-making process at all levels. In order for Vision 2030 to be a success youths have to be empowered,” said a youth from Bulilima District. Youths also called for more employment opportunities, vocational training centres, access to free sanitary wear, easy access to loans, access to mines, farms and other natural resources in their districts. They also demanded benefits from various empowerment programmes in the country such as command livestock and agriculture. Speaking during the meeting a Ministry of Youth, Arts, Sports and Culture consultant, Dr Joseph Malaba said the Ministry was conducting consultative meetings on the National Youth Policy in all 10 provinces. He said according to the United Nations guidelines all members nations were supposed to formulate a youth policy and review it periodically. Dr Malaba said the policy was a roadmap which guided youth developmental issues. “The Ministry of Youth, Arts, Sports and Culture is conducting youth policy review consultative meetings in all 10 provinces of the country. Three teams have been deployed in various provinces. “We first had an inception report where we looked into some of the issues that affect youths regionally and globally. Now we are going a step further where we want to capture your views as youths on what you want incorporated in the National Youth Policy. “We are now at the data capturing stage and after this process we will have a stakeholder’s validation workshop where we will compile a report containing findings from all provinces then we will come up with a final draft of the policy,” he said. He said the National Youth Policy was first enacted in 2002 and was reviewed in 2012. Also speaking during the same meeting Zimbabwe Youth Council deputy director, Mr Singomo Chisina said it had been difficult over the years to implement guidelines of the youth policy because of the absence of a legislative instrument. He said it was the desire of the youth council to see the youth policy review process culminate into a law as it was crucial in ensuring empowerment of youths. — @DubeMatutu