The Chronicle Brenda Zinyuke, Chronicle Reporter THE overall dam levels in Bulawayo are below 40 percent hence residents must continue to conserve water, Bulawayo Mayor, Councillor Solomon Mguni, has said. Speaking during a day of prayer and thanks giving for the city of Bulawayo at the Large City Hall yesterday, the Mayor said dam levels were low and there was a need to ask for rains from God. He said over the years, Bulawayo has experienced water supply challenges owing to a number of issues, among them reduced rainfall. Last month, council re-introduced a 48-hour water shedding programme. “Currently, the overall dam levels are below 40 percent. Therefore it is paramount today that we lift our voices and ask for the rains from the Lord,” Clr Mguni said. He urged Bulawayo residents to work closely with council in conserving water. There were four prayer themes for the service: prayer for the rains; thanks giving for attaining 125 years as a city; economic turnaround and investment in the city as well as transformative development and reimaging of Bulawayo. During the service, Clr Mguni applauded men and women who have been serving the city for the past 125 years. “Ladies and gentlemen, this year the city turned 125 years and we continue celebrating and thanking God for this milestone achievement. We also want to thank men and women who have worked tirelessly, dedicating their time towards the growth of Bulawayo,” he said. The Mayor said there are projects that have been put in place to assist in the city’s development. “The city’s vision focuses on being a leading smart transformative city by 2024. As we are gathered here, let us pray for transformative development of Bulawayo. Currently, the city has a number of projects that are waiting to kick off that will contribute towards the development of Bulawayo,” he said. Clr Mguni said development could only be achieved if the city council working with the residents commit all plans and ideas to the Lord who will bring them to perfection. He also said the city will be holding its annual civic service on Sunday November 3 at the Celebration Church to celebrate Bulawayo’s 76th anniversary since it was declared a city in 1943. — @zinyuke