The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter SOME parts of the country have been plunged into darkness after a Zesa national grid pylon was vandalised in Bulawayo leaving “huge number of customers” affected, according to the power utility. Posting on microblogging site Twitter yesterday, Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company (ZETDC) blamed the collapse of the tower on vandalism of electricity infrastructure. “National Grid under threat. Photo below shows a vandalised tower between Mahatshula and Cement Side (Siding) near Marvel 330 kilovault substation in Bulawayo,” posted ZETDC. In a different tweet, Zesa national spokesperson Mr Fullard Gwasira elaborated on how the pylon could have collapsed: “Towers are constructed using angle irons which are bolted together. Thieves steal these bolts leading to structural weakness and collapse.” Reached for comment, Mr Gwasira said he could not immediately shed light on the impact. “I have sent questions to relevant authorities who have not responded. I cannot respond to your questions. May you get in touch with me tomorrow morning,” said Mr Gwasira. The incident comes at a time when the country is experiencing prolonged power load shedding. Zesa has also cited vandalism of electricity infrastructure as one of its major challenges. It has previously said it requires about US$40 million to replace more than 4 000 transformers which have been vandalised across the country. The power utility has also said more than 1 000km of power lines have also been stolen, derailing its efforts to provide electricity to clients. The parastatal is lobbying Government to increase the nine-year mandatory jail sentence for electricity infrastructure vandalism saying the crime amounts to economic sabotage. In May this year, Zesa said more than 30 000 households had no power countrywide due to vandalism of about 4 000 transformers, cables and associated materials. “Last year alone, we lost US$5 million due to vandalism of infrastructure, primarily theft of copper cables. We lose a lot of revenue and it becomes difficult to work on new projects and develop the country when we have to keep on replacing vandalised equipment,” said Mr Gwasira at the time. He said a disturbing development is that copper cable thieves are now cutting down poles or burning them to access power lines. Mr Gwasira said burning poles to get cables was contributing to veld fires. According to recent reports, stolen copper cables are melted and then smuggled to markets such as South Africa, Mozambique and Zambia where a tonne of the metal can fetch as much as US$30 000. In 2016, four men suspected to be part of a smuggling syndicate were arrested at the Plumtree Border Post while trying to smuggle 915 kilogrammes of copper worth US$18 300 out of the country. The men were reportedly bound for South Africa to sell the copper when they were intercepted at the border. — @nqotshili