The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporter OPPOSITION political parties have said they will be joining the anti-sanctions crusade tomorrow because it is a stand against factors contributing to masses suffering in the country as opposed to political contestations. The MDC-T, LEAD, NCA and 17 opposition parties under Political Actors Dialogue (POLAD) have thrown their weight behind the event. The anti-sanctions demonstrations come after Sadc, during its 39th Ordinary Summit held in Tanzania in August, declared October 25 as the solidarity day against illegal sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe. The regional bloc resolved to conduct various activities in their respective countries on the day to call for the immediate removal of the sanctions. Zimbabwe has planned anti-sanctions demonstrations across the country with the main march set for the National Sports Stadium in Harare where President Mnangagwa is expected to address. In separate interviews yesterday, various opposition political parties said they would stand against sanctions causing untold suffering to citizens. MDC-T deputy president Mr Obert Gutu said his party would join the demonstration as they want sanctions removed. “Yes, we are unequivocally calling for the unconditional removal of sanctions against Zimbabwe. The majority poor are suffering the brunt of the sanctions in townships and rural areas in their various communities in Tsholotsho, in Gutu among other areas. Anyone who thinks that the elite are affected by sanctions does not know what they are talking about,” said Mr Gutu. He said the elite can still afford to access the best health care while the generality of people are dying in local hospitals where there is not enough medication due to the illegal embargo. Mr Gutu said joining the anti-sanctions crusade should not be misconstrued to mean support for Zanu-PF as this has nothing to do with political parties. Labour Economists and African Democrats (LEAD) president Ms Linda Masarira said the ruling party should not politicise the anti-sanctions demonstrations as they require the participation of every Zimbabwean. She said at the moment her organisation needed clarity on whether it was a party event or national event. “If it’s a national event LEAD is going to participate in it. That’s why yesterday (on Sunday) we issued a statement saying we stand with Zimbabweans against sanctions because they have brought untold suffering to the people of Zimbabwe. We do not need sanctions in Zimbabwe. Sanctions are a form of economic warfare and we are going to fight with the Government to ensure that sanctions are removed against Zimbabwe so that the economy grows in sustainable ways,” Ms Masarira said. National Constitutional Assembly (NCA) president Professor Lovemore Madhuku said all political parties under the banner of Political Actors Dialogue (POLAD) would be participating in the anti-sanctions’ demonstrations. He said it would be a serious mistake to look at the demonstration with political lenses as the impact of sanctions is felt nationally even by those who are apolitical. “It’s a wrong attitude to think that it’s about the ruling party against the opposition. The country is bigger than political parties. So, Zimbabweans should look at issues as issues not in reference to party positions. We don’t survive by looking at political party slogans. The bottomline is that sanctions are contributing to our situation currently, they are not the only cause but they are contributing,” Dr Madhuku said.  — @nqotshili