The Chronicle Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter A 21-YEAR OLD man from Bulawayo has been arrested for allegedly stealing three motor vehicles in one month. Busani Tshuma was arrested in a midnight raid at his hideout in Donnington suburb yesterday. Police investigations zeroed in on him after he crashed in two of the stolen vehicles. Bulawayo acting police spokesperson Inspector Abednico Ncube confirmed the matter. “I can confirm that we are dealing with a case in which a 21-year-old male is suspected to have stolen three motor vehicles between August 29 and September 30, 2019. Investigations are underway,” said Insp Ncube. Tshuma allegedly stole a Red Honda fit vehicle from Mr Anele Mpofu on August 29 this year. He is accused of stealing a black Toyota Wish vehicle from Mr Lovemore Museri of Sizinda suburb on September 29. On the third count, Tshuma allegedly stole a silver Honda Fit vehicle from Mr Njabulo Moyo of Burnside suburb. On Monday, while acting on a tip off, detectives from the Vehicle Theft Squad carried out an early morning raid leading to the arrest of the accused person at his parents’ house where he was hiding. Tshuma, police said, only admitted to stealing the black Toyota Wish and silver Honda fit vehicles. However, he was positively identified by Mr Mpofu, the complainant in the first case. The total value of the stolen property was pegged at US$11 440 and property worth US$8 100 was recovered. In the first count, Mr Mpofu lost his car while at a petrol station when he had briefly left the car to check on progress at the front of the queue on August 29. “He decided to walk to the front of the queue and left the vehicle unattended. He left the car keys in the ignition. He heard the sound of his car being driven away before he reached the fuel pump. In the second count, Tshuma is alleged to have stolen Mr Museri’s car at Mnethi Shops in Nketa 6 suburb where it had been left unattended. “Mr Museri closed the doors of his car but did not lock them and left the keys in the ignition port. During this period, the accused stole the car and sped off. However, he was identified by the complainant since they knew each other,” said Insp Ncube. Mr Museri reported the matter at Bulawayo Central Police Station. Tshuma was involved in an accident near Bob’s garage along the Bulawayo- Gwanda road where he escaped unhurt and fled from the scene. The vehicle was recovered on Sunday at the accident scene with Mr Museri’s cellphone, RTGS$400 and ZAR1 500. In the third count, Tshuma approached Mr Moyo in the city centre pretending to be a commuter who wanted to hire the vehicle on Sunday. “They agreed on a fare of 100 rand,” said Insp Ncube. They allegedly embarked on their journey and when they got to a fast food outlet on 11th Avenue and Fort Street, the accused person requested to buy food and sent Moyo to the food court. “While buying food, the complainant observed the accused person reversing the car and rushed to grab the passenger door but the accused sped off,” said Insp Ncube. Mr Ephraim Dlamini, Mr Moyo’s friend spotted Tshuma pirating along the Bulawayo-Gwanda Road with the stolen car and he sped off. He ploughed into bushes near Selbourne Brooke suburb. Tshuma escaped from the scene and disappeared into the bush.  — @andile_tshuma