The Chronicle Sharon Buwerimwe, Court Reporter A TEENAGER from Bulawayo who assaulted and bit a police officer who wanted to arrest him at a church for robbery, has been sentenced to 27 months in prison. Washington Zikhali (18) from Cowdray Park suburb robbed Ms Siluzile Ndlovu (37) of her handbag which had US$200 and R75. Constable Ucal Phuthi (31) received an anonymous tip off that Zikhali was at a funeral wake in the same suburb and went to arrest him. Armed with a brick, Zikhali hid in a toilet. When Const Phuthi forced the door open, Zikhali struck him with the brick on his head before sinking his teeth into his left hand. Zikhali pleaded not guilty to robbery and assaulting a police officer before Western Commonage magistrate, Ms Tancy Dube. The magistrate sentenced him to 18 months in prison on the first count. Three months were suspended on condition that Zikhali does not commit a similar offence within the next three years. On the second count of assaulting a cop, the magistrate sentenced Zikhali to nine months in prison. Three months were also suspended on condition that he should not commit a similar offence within the next three years. Zikhali had previously told the court he might have been possessed when he bit the officer. “Your Worship, I was not in control of myself when I bit the cop, I didn’t intend to harm him,” he said. Prosecuting, Mr Tapiwa Solani said on July 6 this year at around 7PM, Zikhali robbed Ms Ndlovu of her handbag that had cash. On September 7, Zikhali assaulted the police officer as he was resisting arrest. “Zikhali used violent means to resist a lawful arrest from Const Phuthi, a peace officer, by hitting him with a stone on his head and biting him on his hand,” he said. Mr Solani said Cst Phuthi sustained serious bite wounds on his left hand and is receiving treatment. Const Phuthi, whose hand was still swollen, told the court that Zikhali attacked him with a big stone. “I found the accused person hiding inside a toilet at Zvese Zvese Church near Anthens Downtown. I tried to apprehend him. However, he hit me with a big stone. He also bit me as he was resisting being arrested,” he said. “My hand is sore and I’m having difficulties using it. I’m still receiving medical treatment.” — @sharonbuwe.